# WotC source:

# E2. Blood of the Vine Tavern

%% --- Page 57 --- %%
A single shaft of light thrusts illumination into the main square, its brightness looking like a solid pillar in the heavy fog. Above the gaping doorway, a sign hangs precariously askew, proclaiming this to be the Blood on the Vine tavern.

The tavern building is about 60 feet square. Close inspection of the sign reveals that it originally read "Blood of the Vine." (An "n" has been scratched over with the "f.") This once finely appointed tavern has grown shoddy over the years. A blazing fire in the hearth gives scant warmth to the few huddled souls within. They include the barkeep, three Vistani sitting together, and a man named Ismark Kolyanovich-who happens to be the son of the village burgomaster, Kolyan Indirovich.

## Roleplaying Ismark 

ISMARK THE LESSER
Ismark (LG male human veteran) is a young man who sits by himself at a corner table, sipping his wine. Other villagers call him "Ismark the Lesser" because he has lived in the shadow of his father for most of his life.

Ismark isn't a typically dour Barovian. He invites the characters to join him, offers to pay for their wine, and asks for their aid in protecting his adopted sister, Ireena Kolyana. If they agree to help, he takes them to the burgomaster's residence (area E4). He wants the characters to help him escort Ireena to Vallaki, a settlement in the heart of the valley, beyond the view of Castle Ravenloft and (he hopes) beyond the reach of Strahd. Ismark knows that moving Ireena is a gamble, since she's vulnerable to Strahd when she is outside their home, but he has heard assertions that Vallaki is well-defended.

Ismark is as tight-lipped as any of the other Barovian villagers, unless the talk deals with Ireena or Strahd. Ismark knows everything the other villagers know. He also knows that, for some unknown reason, Strahd is attracted to Ireena and desires her above all others.

If you used the "Plea for Help" adventure hook and the characters show Ismark the letter they received, he knows the burgomaster's handwriting well enough to confirm that the letter was not written by his father.

Ismark has spent most of his adult life training with weapons in the hope of one day confronting and killing the Strahd. If the characters suggest that he accompany them, Ismark agrees provided that Ireena is first taken to a place of safety. As long as Ismark accompanies the characters, he acts as a party member for the purpose of determining each character's share of experience points (though he gains no experience points himself).

## Roleplaying the Other NPCs

Use the following information to roleplay the other NPCs in the tavern.
### Arik the Barkeep. 
A pudgy little man named Arik Lorensk (CN male human commoner) tends bar. Mindlessly, he cleans glasses, one after another. When they're all clean, he starts over. If he is spoken to, he takes orders for drinks in a dull, hollow voice. A small glass of wine costs 1 cp . A pitcher of wine costs 1 sp . After serving drinks, Arik returns to cleaning glasses. He ignores all attempts to question him.

%% --- Page 58 --- %%
### Vistani Owners. 
Three Vistani spies ( N female humans) named Alenka, Mirabel, and Sorvia sit at a table near the front door. They own the tavern and see to it that all customers pay their tabs. They otherwise show little interest in the characters.

If the characters arrive in the company of other Vistani, the owners are much more likely to engage them in conversation and provide useful information. They suggest that the characters visit Madam Eva (see chapter 2, area G) to have their fortunes read.