# WotC source:

# E5. Church

Atop a slight rise, against the roots of the pillar stone that supports Castle Ravenloft, stands a gray, sagging edifice of stone and wood. This church has obviously weathered the assaults of evil for centuries on end and is worn and weary. A bell tower rises toward the back, and flickering light shines through holes in the shingled roof. The rafters strain feebly against their load.

If the characters approach the church doors, add:

The heavy wooden doors of the church are covered with claw marks and scarred by fire.

The village priest, Donavich, lives here. Other Barovians shun the church for reasons that will quickly become obvious.

The following areas correspond to labels on the map of the church below.

%% --- Page 60 --- %%

## E5a. Hall 

The doors open to reveal a ten-foot-wide, twenty-foot-long hall leading to a brightly lit chapel. The hall is unlit and reeks of mildew. Four doors, two on each side of the hall, lead to adjacent chambers.
You can see that the chapel is strewn with debris, and you hear a soft voice from within reciting a prayer. Suddenly, the prayer is blotted out by an inhuman scream that rises up from beneath the wooden floor.

The scream comes from the church's undercroft (area E5g). The soft voice uttering the prayer belongs to Donavich, the priest (see area E5f).

## E5b. Doru's Bedroom

This dirty, lightless room contains a wooden bed with a straw-filled mattress. Mounted above the bed's headboard is a wooden holy symbol.

This room once belonged to Doru, Donavich's son, who is trapped in the undercroft (area E5g). It hasn't been used in more than a year and contains nothing of value.

## E5c. Donavich's Bedroom

This dirty room contains a wooden bed with a straw-filled mattress, next to which rests a small table with an oil lamp burning brightly on it. Mounted above the bed's headboard is a wooden sun-shaped holy symbol.

This is Donavich's room and contains nothing of value.

## E5d. Trapdoor

%% --- Page 61 --- %%
Time and neglect have punched holes in the ceiling of this moldy room, which contains a few broken roof shingles amid puddles of water. In one corner, set into the floor, is a heavy wooden trapdoor held shut with a chain and a padlock. A young man's screams of anguish can be heard through the door.

Donavich lost the key to the iron padlock. If the chain is removed and the trapdoor is opened, the screaming in the undercroft stops. The trapdoor is swollen and stuck in its frame, so that a successful DC 12 Strength check is required to pull it open. Below it is a wooden staircase that descends 15 feet into the undercroft (area E5g).

## E5e. Office 

An old desk and chair stand against the south wall, a wooden holy symbol mounted above them-a sunburst. A ten-foot-long iron rod attached to the north wall stands bare, suggesting a tapestry once hung there. Against the far wall stands a wooden cabinet with four tall doors.

An empty wooden poor box rests on the seat of the chair. The desk drawers contain a few sheets of blank parchment, along with a couple of quill pens and dried-up jars of ink.

For its size, the wooden cabinet contains very little. Inside are a tinderbox, a few wooden boxes full of candles, and two well-used books: Hymns to the Dawn, a volume of chants to the Morninglord, and The Blade of Truth: The Uses of Logic in the War Against Diabolist Heresies, as Fought by the Ulmist Inquisition, a strange book that mixes logic exercises with lurid descriptions of fiend-worshiping cults.

## E5f. Chapel

The chapel is a shambles, with overturned and broken pews littering the dusty floor. Dozens of candles mounted in candlesticks and candelabras light every dusty corner in a fervent attempt to rid the chapel of shadows. At the far end of the church sits a claw-scarred altar, behind which kneels a priest in soiled vestments. Next to him hangs a long, thick rope that stretches up into the bell tower.

If the characters have not already entered the undercroft, add:

From beneath the chapel floor, you hear a young man's voice cry out, "Father! I'm starving!"

Donavich (LG male human acolyte) has been praying throughout the night. His voice is hoarse and weak. He is, in a word, insane. A little more than a year ago, his twenty-year-old son Doru and several other villagers stormed Castle Ravenloft in revolt, having been lured there by a wizard in black robes who came to Barovia from a faraway land (see chapter 2, area M, for more information on the wizard). By all accounts, the wizard died by Strahd's hand, - "so too did Doru, who returned to his father as a vampire spawn. Donavich was able to trap his son in the church's undercroft, where he remains to this

%% --- Page 62 --- %%
Doru hasn't fed since he was imprisoned, and he cries out to his father at all hours. Meanwhile, Donavich prays day and night, hoping that the gods will tell him how to save Doru without destroying him. If the characters seem intent on slaying Doru, Donavich does his best to stop them. If Doru dies, Donavich falls to the floor and weeps inconsolably, overcome with despair.

In addition to the lore known to all Barovians (see "Barovian Lore" in chapter 2), Donavich knows the following useful information:

- Ireena Kolyana isn't the natural daughter of Kolyan Indirovich. Although Ireena never knew, Kolyan found her at the edge of the Svalich Woods near the Pillarstone of Ravenloft. She was but a girl then and seemed to have no memory of her past. Kolyan adopted her and loved her dearly.
- Every night at midnight, the spirits of dead adventurers rise up out of the church graveyard, forming a silent procession as they walk the road toward Castle Ravenloft. (See "March of the Dead" in the "Special Events" section at the chapter's end.)

Funeral for the Burgomaster. If the characters bring Kolyan Indirovich's body to the church, Donavich presses the characters into helping him bury the burgomaster in the cemetery (area E6) at dawn. During the burial, Donavich offers prayers to the Morninglord in exchange for Kolyan Indirovich's deliverance from Barovia.

Once Kolyan is put in the ground, Donavich suggests that Ireena be taken as far from Castle Ravenloft as possible. He proposes that the characters take her to the Abbey of Saint Markovia in Krezk (chapter 8) or, failing that, the fortified town of Vallaki (chapter 5). Donavich is unaware that the abbey, once a bastion of good, has become a den of evil.

## E5g. Undercroft 

The church's undercroft has rough-hewn walls and a floor made of damp clay and earth. Rotting wooden pillars strain under the weight of the wooden ceiling. Candlelight from the chapel above slips though the cracks, allowing you to glimpse a gaunt shape in the far corner.

The shape is Doru, a vampire spawn sent by Strahd to torment Donavich and cast down the church. Doru is starved for blood and brave enough to attack a lone character. If the characters approach as a group, he does his best to avoid them while hissing, "I can smell your blood!" If they cut off his escape, he lunges forth and attacks.

If the characters restrain Doru and either promise him blood or threaten to destroy him, or if they kill him and then raise him from the dead, he recounts the events that led to his downfall (see area E5f).

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is in the undercroft, it's contained in a moldy, old chest in the southwest corner of the room. The chest is unlocked and not trapped.