# WotC source:
# K18. High Tower Staircase

<div class="description"><p>The large flagstones of this spiraling staircase lead up and down around a twenty-foot-wide stone core. Cobwebs fill the staircase, making it difficult to see even the ceiling. Heavy beams sag overhead from centuries of supporting weight.</p></div>

The staircase starts at area K84 and spirals upward around a central shaft (area K18a), climbing 300 feet to the top of the high tower (area K59).

A recently constructed masonry wall blocks the staircase 10 feet below the landing west of area K17. A chink in this wall allows gas (or a vampire in gaseous form) to pass from one side of the wall to the other. A character who inspects the wall closely can spot the chink with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. The wall is too sturdy for characters to knock down, but they can create a hole wide enough to crawl through in 1 hour, or reduce the entire wall to a pile of masonry bricks and rubble in 2 hours.

Thirty feet below the masonry wall and 50 feet above the foot of the steps, a small crack has formed in the outer wall of the stairwell. The crack is 1/2 inch wide, 5 inches tall, and 12 inches deep; it leads to the castle's wine cellar (area K63). Characters can notice the crack automatically as they climb or descend the stairs. Widening the crack enough to squeeze through the wall requires major excavation and would take several days.

The shaft that these stairs wrap around (area K18a) runs vertically from area K59 to area K84 without any holes or obstructions. The inner wall of the stairwell, between the staircase and the shaft, is solid.

## K18a. High Tower Shaft

Characters can access this 10-foot-diameter, 390-foot-tall stone shaft from the top or the bottom of the high tower (areas K59 and K84, respectively).

The shaft is dark and choked with cobwebs. A rushing wind causes the webs to stir. Climbing the shaft is impossible without the aid of magic or the use of a climber's kit, since there are few handholds.

The bats in the catacombs (area K84) fly up the shaft at night, exiting Castle Ravenloft through various arrow slits and holes in the tower's peak (area K59). After feeding, they return by the same route.