# WotC source:
# K19. Grand Landing

<div class="description"><p>Massive stairs rise to a landing twenty feet wide by forty feet long. Stone arches support a ceiling covered with frescoes twenty feet overhead. The frescoes depict armored knights on horseback, their finer features faded beyond recognition.</p>

<p>Dust floats in the air here. At each end of the south wall, a staircase rises into darkness. Between the staircases are twin alcoves, each one containing a standing suit of armor covered with dark stains. Each suit of armor elutes a mace, the "business end" of which is shaped like a dragon's head. Words engraved on the arches above the suits of armor have been scratched out.</p></div>

Both staircases on the south wall climb to area K25. The massive stairs lead down to area K8. Anyone who crosses in front of the alcoves along the south wall activates the suits of armor.

Both suits of armor are mechanical traps, each one activated by a pressure plate hidden in the floor in front of its alcove. A character who searches for traps in one of these locations notices both pressure plates with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check.

When 40 or more pounds of weight are placed on a pressure plate, the suit of armor nearest to that plate springs forward, flailing its arms and wielding its mace. Any creature standing on a pressure plate when its trap triggers must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage from the flailing armor. After leaping out and attacking, the armor retracts. The pressure plate resets after 1 minute, after which its armor trap can be triggered again.

The suits of armor act much like metal puppets—a little joke intended to spook visitors more than damage them. A pressure plate can be disabled by a character who uses thieves' tools and makes a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. A trap can also be disabled by destroying its suit of armor, which has AC 18, 5 hit points, and immunity to psychic and poison damage.

%% --- Page 79 --- %%