# WotC source:
# K36. Dining Hall of the Count

<div class="description"><p>Dust assaults your lungs. A sweet yet pungent smell of decay fills this room, in the center of which stands a long oak table. A blanket of dust covers the tabletop and its fine china and silverware. In the center of the table, a large, tiered cake leans heavily to one side. The once white frosting has turned green with age. Cobwebs hang like dusty lace down every side of the cake. A single doll figure of a well-dressed woman adorns the crest of the cake. Suspended above is a web-shrouded chandelier of forged iron. An arched window in the south wall is draped with heavy curtains. Resting in a wooden stand by the window is a dusty lute, and standing quietly in the southwest corner is a tall harp shrouded in cobwebs.</p></div>

%% --- Page 87 --- %%
The wedding cake is over four centuries old, kept in its current rotten state by the will of Strahd. The toy figure of the groom from the top of the cake was cast on the floor long ago. A character who searches the dusty floor finds the figurine with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check.

If the characters take the groom figurine out of the room, read the following if they return to the room at a later time:

<div class="description"><p>Billowing drapes draw your eye to the window, which has been broken outward. Scattered about the floor are chunks of the moldy cake, as if something had burst out of it.</p></div>

There are two explanations for the burst cake and broken window. Choose the one you think is creepier:

- Strahd smashes the cake and breaks the window to make the characters think something terrible has escaped and is now stalking them.
- Strahd's hate assumes a corporeal form, bursts out of the cake (the symbol of Sergei and Tatyana's love), and escapes through the window.
"Strahd's hate" has the statistics of an invisible stalker and tries to kill whichever character is carrying the groom figurine.

The room has wooden doors in the north and west walls, and an ornate steel door in the east wall (see area K35 for details).
The harp stands $61 / 2$ feet tall, weighs close to 300 pounds, and is fashioned of dark, stained wood carved with images of harts and roses. Its taut strings are made of gut.

A character who plays the harp and succeeds on a DC 15 Charisma (Performance) check does well enough to summon the ghost of PidIwick, a short little man dressed as a fool, with a tiny jingling bell at the end of his pointy dunce cap. He asks, "Why have you summoned me from beyond the grave?" Regardless of the answer, he commends the character for playing well and says, "In my crypt below the castle, thou shalt find a treasure worthy of one so talented as thee! May it help thee set this troubled place to rest." If the characters think to ask him who he is, the fool replies, "PidIwick." If asked how he died, he replies humorlessly, "I fell down the stairs." If PidIwick II (see area K59) is with the party, the ghost points at the clockwork effigy and says, "He pushed me down the stairs."

With nothing more to add, the ghost of PidIwick fades away and doesn't appear again. If the characters attack the ghost, it attacks them in turn.

## Treasure 

The lute, though old and covered in dust, has survived the passage of time. It is a magic instrument of the bards called a Doss lute.