# WotC source:
# K38. False Treasury 

Resting on the floor of this smoke-filled room is a closed chest surrounded by piles of gold, silver, and copper coins. The fittings and clawed feet on the chest are evidence of great workmanship.

Attached to the east wall are two torch sconces. The southernmost one holds a torch with an intricate metal base. The other is empty. A skeleton in broken plate armor lies against the wall. The skeleton's right hand is on its throat, and its left hand holds the matching torch from the empty sconce.

The coins scattered around the trapped chest total $50 \mathrm{gp}, 100 \mathrm{sp}$, and $2,000 \mathrm{cp}$. The chest weighs 40 pounds and is unlocked. When opened, it releases a cloud of sleeping gas that fills the room. Any creature in the room must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 4 hours. If all the characters succumb to the gas, they are found by the witches who lair in area K56 and dragged to area K50, then left there unharmed. If even one character resists the effect of the gas, the witches do not appear.

The armored skeleton on the floor is all that remains of an adventurer. His corpse has nothing of value.

## Secret Doors

This room is concealed behind two secret doors.
The secret door to the west is set into the back wall of the fireplace (area K37) and can be pulled open from within this room by lifting a simple locking mechanism (which is connected to the poker in the study). It's possible that a character might open this secret door inadvertently by lifting the poker in area K37. Characters can otherwise locate the secret door normally, but a successful check doesn't reveal the mechanism to open it. That can be found only through trial and error, or the characters can bypass the mechanism with a knock spell or similar magic.

The secret door at the northern end of the east wall is sealed shut. If the torch is taken from the skeleton's hand and placed back in the empty sconce, the secret door swings inward, revealing area K39 beyond. Removing the torch from its sconce at any time causes the secret door to close and lock shut, becoming sealed as before. Characters can locate this secret door normally, but a successful check doesn't reveal the mechanism to open it. That can be found only through trial and error, or the characters can bypass the mechanism with a knock spell or similar magic.