# WotC source:
# K41. Treasury 

This octagonal vault is free of dust and cobwebs. The domed ceiling forty feet above is painted black and sparkles with a display of stars in unfamiliar constellations. Barely contained within this vault is a square tower, twenty feet on a side and thirty feet high, with arrow slits on all sides and a battlemented roof.

The domed ceiling is coated with dry pitch. The "stars" are shards of glowing crystal embedded in the pitch, each one as bright as a candle flame. Thanks to the starry "night sky," the vault is dimly lit.

The plundered riches of Strahd's secret hoard lie within this adamantine tower, which is actually a Daern's instant fortress (see chapter 7, "Treasure," of the Dungeon Master's Guide). Only Strahd knows the command word to alter its shape and size, which can't be done until every bit of treasure inside it is removed. Only Strahd can open the two means of entry: a sealed adamantine door set into the base of the tower on the north side, and an adamantine trapdoor on the roof.

The arrow slits of the tower are 4 inches wide and 2 feet tall, and the walls of the fortress are 3 inches thick. Characters who are able to reduce their size or assume gaseous form can enter the tower through these slits.

## Treasure

The ground floor of the Daern's instant fortress contains 50,000 cp, 10,000 sp, 10,000 gp, 1,000 pp, 15 assorted gems ( 100 gp each), and a +2 shield emblazoned with a stylized silver dragon that is the emblem of the Order of the Silver Dragon (see chapter 7). The shield whispers warnings to its bearer, granting a +2 bonus to initiative if the bearer isn't incapacitated.

The upper floor of the tower contains 10 pieces of jewelry ( 250 gp each) in a red velvet sack, an alchemy jug, a helm of brilliance, a rod of the pact keeper, +1 , and an unlocked wooden coffer with four compartments, each one containing a potion of greater healing.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is lying atop the coins on the ground floor inside the tower.
If your card reading indicates an encounter with Strahd in this area, he is perched atop the tower.