# WotC source:
# K59. High Tower Peak

If the characters climb the stairs to reach the tower peak, read:

%% --- Page 99 --- %%
The spiral staircase finally ends at a five-foot-wide stone walkway that circles the shaft. In the center of the tower's highest floor, a fifteen-foot-diameter hole drops into the cold heart of Ravenloft itself. Cold air rushes up out of the shaft, sending a chill through you. Arrow slits line the walls, and aging beams support a steep, coneshaped roof. One beam and part of the roof have fallen away, leaving a gaping hole open to the stormy sky.

The hole in the floor forms the mouth of an enclosed shaft (area K18a) that descends 450 feet to the castle catacombs (area K84).

## Pidwick II 

Hiding in the rafters is Pidwick II (see appendix D). A character spots Pidwick II with a passive Wisdom (Perception) score that meets or exceeds its Dexterity (Stealth) check. If Pidwick II is spotted, read:

Something lurks among the rafters-a small, spindly man not much larger than a child. A flash of lightning illuminates his face, which is painted like a grinning jack-o'lantern.

Although he appears to be a petite man wearing face paint and a fool's costume, Pidwick II is actually a clockwork effigy of the real-life Pidwick, who lies entombed in the catacombs. The dark paint on his face is soot.

If the characters see Pidwick II in bright light, read:

It's obvious that you're looking not at a small man, but a mockery of one. This thing is not a creature of flesh and bone, but a construct made of dyed leather stitched and tightly wrapped over an articulated frame. You hear the soft tumbling and clicking of gears.

Pidwick II can't speak and doesn't have an expressive face, so he relies mostly on hand gestures and simple diagrams to communicate. He understands Common but can't read or write.

If the characters show kindness to the clockwork effigy, it accompanies them and tries its best to be helpful and entertaining. It knows its way around the castle and can serve as a silent guide.

If one or more characters are mean toward Pidwick II, its quiet resentment of them grows, and at some point when the group is at the top of a staircase, it pushes one of the offending party members down the stairs. The target must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or tumble to the bottom of the staircase, taking 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen.