# WotC source:
# K63. Wine Cellar 

Arched frames of stone form a low, wet ceiling over this wine cellar. Great casks line the walls, their bands rusting and their contents long since spilled onto the floor. A few hungry rats make their home here, but upon your sudden arrival, they retreat to the shadows.

The rats are harmless. Cyrus Belview (see area K62) treats them like pets.
Characters who search the room find a crack at the southern end of the west wall. The crack is half an inch wide, 5 inches tall, and 12 inches deep; it leads to area K18.

## Wine Casks

%% --- Page 105 --- %%
Each of the twelve large casks here rests on its side in a heavy wooden brace. Three casks stand against the north wall, six against the east wall, and three against the south wall. Decorative lettering is burned into the top of each cask, showing the winery name-the Wizard of Wines-and the name of the wine in the cask.

Northern Casks. All three of these casks are rotted and empty. The wine's name is Champagne du le Stomp.
Eastern Casks. Five of these casks are rotted and empty. The wine name burned on each is Red Dragon Crush. Lining the interior of the sixth one is a patch of yellow mold (see "Dungeon Hazards" in chapter 5, "Adventure Environments," of the Dungeon Master's Guide). A character who inspects the cask closely and succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check sees yellow mold in the cracks between the planks of the cask. If this cask is smashed open, the yellow mold releases a cloud of spores.

Southern Casks. Two of these casks are rotted and empty. The wine name burned on each is Purple Grapemash No. 3. The middle one is home to a purplish black pudding that bursts forth if the cask is broken open.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft 

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is inside one of the empty casks along the north wall, hidden there by Cyrus Belview.