# WotC source:
# K7. Entry

%% --- Page 74 --- %%

Read the following text if the characters approach from the courtyard (area K1):

<div class="description"><p>The ornate outer doors of the castle hang open, flanked by fluttering torches in iron sconces. Twenty feet inside the castle is a second set of doors.</p></div>

If one or more characters approach from area K1 and come within 10 feet of the double doors, read:

<div class="description"><p>The doors in front of you suddenly swing open, revealing a grand hall filled with the sound of organ music.</p></div>

If the characters approach from area K8 and have not yet visited this area, read:

<div class="description"><p>A set of double doors to the west appears to be, or to lead to, an exit from the castle.</p></div>

If the characters enter from either direction, read:

<div class="description"><p>Overhead, in the vaulted entry foyer, four statues of dragons glare down, their eyes flickering in the torchlight.</p></div>

If anyone except Strahd enters this area through the doors that adjoin area K8, the dragons come alive, drop to the floor hissing and spitting, and attack.
The dragons don't attack characters who enter this area from area K1, heading east. The dragons are four red dragon wyrmlings, and they have
instructions to allow guests to enter the castle, but not to leave it. If intruders vacate this area, the dragons fly up to their perches and revert to stone. In
their stone forms, they are impervious to weapon damage. The dragons never leave the room.