# WotC source:
# K74. North Dungeon 

The rusty iron door connecting this hall to area K73 is submerged in 5 feet of water and requires a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to open.

A mold-covered ceiling hangs three feet above the still, black water that fills this dungeon corridor. The water is five feet deep. Ten-foot-square cells, their entrances blocked by iron bars, line both sides of the hall. One of the cells is dimly lit.

The corridor is 40 feet long. Branching off it are eight cells, four along each wall. Light spills out of cell K74h.
A hinged door made up of 1-inch-thick rusted iron bars spaced 4 inches apart, with horizontal crossbars spaced 6 inches apart, closes off each cell. Each door is fitted with an iron lock. A character using thieves' tools can try to pick a lock, which requires 1 minute and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. The check is made with disadvantage if the character is trying to pick the lock from inside the cell. If the check fails, the character can try again.

A character can force open a barred door by using an action and succeeding on a DC 25 Strength check.
Strahd visits the dungeon occasionally to see whether any characters have become trapped here. He can enter a cell by assuming mist form.

## K74a. Forgotten Treasure

This cell is linked to a teleport trap in area K73. Characters who enter the cell can feel coins shifting beneath their feet.
Treasure. Scattered across the floor of this cell are 3,000 ep. The coins have the profiled visage of Strahd von Zarovich stamped on them. A character can scoop up one hundred coins every minute.

%% --- Page 109 --- %%


Castle Ravenloft - Curse of Strahd - Sources - D&D Beyond

## K74b. Forgotten Treasure

The rusted door to this cell hangs open slightly.

Characters who enter the cell can feel coins shifting beneath their feet.

**Treasure.** Scattered across the floor of this cell are 300 pp. The coins have the profiled visage of Strahd von Zarovich stamped on them. A character can scoop up one hundred coins every minute.

## K74c. Rotting Corpse

Clinging to the bars of this otherwise empty cell is the rotting corpse of a male half-elf dressed in leather armor.

This cell is linked to a teleport trap in area K73.

**Treasure.** A search of the corpse yields a sheathed longsword and two belt pouches, one containing five gemstones (50 gp each) and the other containing a potion of heroism.

## K74d. Empty Cell

This cell contains nothing of interest.

## K74e. End of the Ride

This cell is linked to a teleport trap in area K73.

**Secret Door.** A secret door is 5 feet up from the floor on the north wall of this cell. The secret door can't be opened from this side without the use of a knock spell or similar magic. Behind the secret door is a chute of polished black marble that slants upward (area K82).

## K74f. Empty Cell

This cell contains nothing of interest.

## K74g. Gray Ooze

Clinging to the floor of this cell is a gray ooze that attacks anything that enters. While underwater, the ooze is effectively invisible.

## K74h. Lost Sword

A glowing blade can be seen beneath the water near the back of the cell.

This cell is linked to a teleport trap in area K73.

**Treasure.** The source of the underwater glow is a sentient lawful good +1 shortsword (Intelligence 11, Wisdom 13, Charisma 13). It has hearing and normal vision out to a range of 120 feet. It communicates by transmitting emotion to the creature carrying or wielding it.

The sword's purpose is to fight evil. The sword has the following additional properties:

- The sword continually sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. Only by destroying the sword can this light be extinguished.
- A lawful good creature can attune itself to the sword in 1 minute.
- While attuned to the weapon, the sword's wielder can use the sword to cast the crusader's mantle spell. Once used, this property of the sword can't be used again until the next dawn.