# WotC source:
# K78. Brazier Room

This room is thirty feet square, rising to a twenty-foot-tall flat ceiling. A stone brazier burns fiercely in the center of the room, but its tall white flame produces no heat. The rim of the brazier is carved with seven cup-shaped indentations spaced evenly around the circumference. Within each indentation is a spherical stone, twice the diameter of a human eyeball and made of a colored crystal. No two stones are the same color.

Overhead, a wood-framed hourglass as tall and wide as a dwarf hangs ten feet above the brazier, suspended from the ceiling by thick iron chains. All the sand is stuck in the upper portion of the hourglass, seemingly unable to run down into the bottom. Written in glowing script on the base of the hourglass is a verse in Common.

Two nine-foot-tall iron statues of knights on horseback, poised to charge with swords drawn, stand in deep alcoves facing each other. The brazier sits between them.

The two statues are iron golems. Each horse and rider is considered one creature, and they are inseparable. The golems will not leave the room under any circumstances, and they attack only under specific conditions (see the "Development" section that follows).

The hourglass has AC 12, 20 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic damage, and vulnerability to thunder damage. If the hourglass is reduced $t$ points, its glass shatters, causing the sand within it to fall to the floor. The magic writing on the base of the hourglass reads as follows:

%% --- Page 113 --- %%
Cast a stone into the fire:
Violet leads to the mountain spire
Orange to the castle's peak
Red if lore is what you seek
Green to where the coffins hide
Indigo to the master's bride
Blue to ancient magic's womb
Yellow to the master's tomb

The brazier's flame is magical and sheds no warmth. A successful casting of dispel magic (DC 16) extinguishes the flame for 1 hour. The fire is permanently extinguished if the brazier is destroyed. The brazier has AC 17, 25 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic damage, and resistance to all other damage.

The stones set into the brazier's rim are colored red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, respectively. Tossing one into the brazier causes its flame to change from white to the color of the stone, and the sand begins falling through the hourglass. Any creature that touches the colored flame is teleported to a location within Strahd's domain, as determined by the color:

| Flame Color | Teleports to ...                              |
|:----------- |:--------------------------------------------- |
| Red         | Study (area K37)                              |
| Orange      | North tower peak (area K60)                   |
| Yellow      | Strahd's tomb (area K86)                      |
| Green       | Coffin maker's shop (chapter 5, area N6f)     |
| Blue        | Amber Temple (chapter 13, area X42)           |
| Indigo      | Abbey of Saint Markovia (chapter 8, area S17) |
| Violet      | Tsolenka Pass (chapter 9, area T4)            |

After 5 rounds, the sand runs out, and the color of the flame returns to white. When the flame does so, the sand instantly reappears in the top part of the hourglass (provided the hourglass is intact), and the stone that was cast into the fire reappears in the brazier's rim.

## Development 

If the brazier, the hourglass, or either golem is attacked, the doors of the room magically slam shut and lock (unless they are being held or wedged open), and the golems animate and attack. On the first round, the golems fill the room with their poison breath, which issues from the horses' mouths. (Each creature in the room must make two saving throws, one for each breath weapon.) On subsequent rounds, each golem makes one attack with its sword and one slam attack with its hoof. When there are no creatures left to fight in the room, the golems return to their alcoves, and the doors unlock. Forcing open a locked door requires a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check. Each door has AC 15, 25 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.