# WotC source:
# K79. Western Stair

This staircase of ancient stone is worn smooth. Thick dust covers its steps, and cobwebs choke the passage.

The stairs rise at a 45-degree angle for a distance of 40 feet horizontally, leading to a 10-foot-square landing (see below). A second set of stairs continues upward to the east at a similar angle for a distance of 30 feet horizontally, ending at a secret door that opens into area K72.

## Landing

%% --- Page 114 --- %%
Inscribed on the landing, hidden under years of dust, is a glyph of warding. If the characters brush away the dust, someone can spot the glyph with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check.

The glyph triggers the first time a living creature passes over it. Triggering it activates a major image spell, conjuring an illusion of Strahd von Zarovich that appears either halfway up the stairs leading to area K72 or halfway down the stairs leading to area K78, so that the vampire appears in front of the triggering character. When "Strahd" appears, read:

A sickly mist fills the stairway ahead, then coalesces into the form of the vampire Strahd, his eyes burning red with anger. "You have worn out your welcome," he says. "Whatever gods you believe in cannot save you now!"

Have the characters roll initiative. Any attack or spell that hits "Strahd" passes through, revealing that he is an illusion. On initiative count 0 , the illusory vampire chuckles and melts away like a wax doll in a bonfire, leaving no trace behind, and the glyph disappears.