# WotC source:
# K8. Great Entry

Cobwebs stretch between the columns that support the vaulted ceiling of a great, dusty hall dimly lit by sputtering torches in iron sconces. The torches cast odd
shadows across the faces of eight stone gargoyles squatting motionlessly on the rim of the domed ceiling. Cracked and faded ceiling frescoes are covered by decay.
Double doors of bronze stand closed to the east. To the north, a wide staircase climbs into darkness. A lit hallway to the south contains another set of bronze doors,
through which you hear sad and majestic organ tones.

The southern hallway is described in area K9. The wide staircase leads up to area K19.

If the characters are here by invitation, add the following:

<div class="description"><p>An elf with brown skin and long black hair descends the wide staircase, quiet as a cat. He wears a gray cloak over black studded leather armor and has a polished
scimitar hanging from his belt.</p> <p>"My master is expecting you," he says.</p></div>

The elf is Rahadin, the castle chamberlain (see appendix D). He fights only if attacked. Otherwise, he leads the characters to the dining hall (area K10),
points them inside, pulls the doors shut behind them, and withdraws to area K72 by way of the South Tower Stair (area K21).

Development
After all the characters leave this room, the eight gargoyles attack any character who dares to return. The gargoyles also swoop down to fight if they are
attacked. When the gargoyles attack, the turbulence in the air from their wings extinguishes the feeble torches in the sconces, plunging the hall into
darkness unless the characters have light sources.

%% --- Page 75 --- %%