# WotC source:
# K84. Catacombs

Buried deep beneath the keep of Ravenloft lie ancient catacombs, with arched ceilings supported by wide, hollow columns that double as crypts. Cobwebs hang limp in the musty air. A thick fog clings to the floor, which is covered in putrid waste. The black ceiling is moving.

The catacombs fill an area roughly 110 feet east to west by 180 feet north to south, and the floor is covered in several inches of bat guano. The catacombs are made up of 10 -foot-wide arched walkways running between 10 -foot-square crypts, which serve as pillars that support the 20 -foot-high ceiling. The area has five means of entry and exit:

- The door adjacent to crypt 1 (connecting with area K81)
- A barred archway to the north (connecting with area K85)
- A barred archway to the south (connecting with area K86 but warded by teleport traps)
- A barred archway to the east (connecting with area K87)
- The high tower stair (area K18) or the shaft (area K18a) to the west

Each crypt is sealed with a chiseled stone "door"-actually a tight-fitting stone slab measuring 3 feet wide, 5 feet tall, and 3 inches thick. Removing or resetting a stone slab requires an action and a successful DC 15 Strength check.

Each crypt houses the remains of the person or persons whose epitaph is inscribed on the front of the slab. The crypts are described in the following sections, their epitaphs noted under the crypt's number in italics.

Unless noted otherwise, each crypt contains a 3 -foot-by-6-foot rectangular bier of marble, 3 feet high, with a skeleton draped in rags lying atop it.
The catacombs are home to tens of thousands of bats. The bats hang here during daytime hours and fly out in the evening through the high tower's central shaft (area K18a) to hunt at night. They will not attack intruders unless they are provoked or are specifically commanded to do so by Strahd

%% --- Page 116 --- %%
or more bats within a 10-foot square on the map are attacked or caught in the area of a harmful spell, 2d4 swarms of bats form in that area and attack. No more swarms can be formed in that square until the next dawn, when more bats arrive to replenish those that were killed.

## Teleport Traps 

Invisible teleport traps are located between crypts 37 and 38, between crypt 37 and the wall south of it, and between crypt 38 and the wall south of it. The traps can't be perceived except with a detect magic spell, which reveals an aura of conjuration magic in the trapped areas. Although the traps can't be disarmed, a successful casting of dispel magic (DC 16) on a trap suppresses its magic for 1 minute, allowing characters to move safely through its area. A trap is also suppressed while wholly or partly in the area of an antimagic field.

These teleport traps form a protective ring around the entrance to Strahd's tomb (area K86). Any creature that enters one of these 10-foot-square spaces is instantly teleported away, switching places with one of the wights in crypt 14. The wight materializes in the creature's previous location and attacks any living creature it sees.

## Crypt 1

Herein lie the ones who walk the path of pain and torment
The stone door connects not with a crypt, but with a hewn tunnel of stone (area K81).

## Crypt 2

Artista DeSlop-Court Ceiling Painter

The domed ceiling of this crypt is painted with an image of imps holding bouquets of colorful flowers. A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. A wooden box is tucked under one bony hand.

The box is unlocked. It contains seven wood-handled paintbrushes and seven small gourds of dried-up paint.

## Crypt 3

Lady Isolde Yunk (Isolde the Incredible): Purveyor of antiques and imports

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Piled all around it, covering the floor, are heaps of old baskets, braziers, bundled tapestries, candlesticks, chairs, chests, cooking utensils, cressets, curtain rods, decanters, dishes, jugs, lamps, scroll cases, tankards, and tinderboxes. None of the junk looks valuable. An old chandelier hangs from the domed ceiling.

Characters could spend hours searching the crypt. Though the antiques here might fetch a fair amount of coin, they are hardly worth the trouble to transport.

## Crypt 4

**Prince Ariel du Plumette (Ariel the Heavy)**
If the characters open the door to this crypt, read:

---
The apparition of a large, rotund man forms within the dark crypt, its eyes wild with insanity. Large, artificial wings unfold from its back.

---

Prince Ariel was a terrible man who longed to fly. He attached artificial wings to a harness and empowered the device with magic, but the apparatus still couldn't bear his weight, and he plunged from the Pillarstone of Ravenloft to his death. His evil ghost attacks the characters on sight. If Ariel succeeds in possessing a character, his host climbs the high tower (area K18) until it reaches the peak (area K59), then hurls itself down the tower's central shaft (area K18a), screaming, "I can fly!" the whole way down.

## Crypt 5

%% --- Page 117 --- %%

**Artank Swilovich: Friend and member of the Barovian Wine Distillers Guild**

You are greeted by the faint smell of wine. A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Heaped around it, covering the entire floor, are thousands of empty wine bottles.

Each bottle's label shows that it is from the Wizard of Wines winery, and the label names the wine inside: Champagne du le Stomp, Red Dragon Crush, or Purple Grapemash No. 3.

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is buried under the wine bottles. A character who searches under the bottles finds the treasure automatically.

## Crypt 6

**Saint Markovia: Dead for all time**

The 10-foot-square section of floor in front of this crypt is a pressure plate that releases four poison darts hidden in tiny holes in the north wall. (See "Sample Traps" in chapter 5, "Adventure Environments," of the Dungeon Master's Guide for the rules on how this trap functions.) The trap resets when the weight is lifted and can be triggered a total of four times before its supply of darts is depleted.

If the door to the crypt is opened, read:

This crypt smells of roses. The remains atop its marble slab have disintegrated, except for one thighbone.

---

If the characters disturb Saint Markovia's remains, add:

A ghostly form appears above the dust, so faint that you can barely discern more than part of a face. From this apparition comes the faintest of whispers: "The vampire must be destroyed. Use me as your weapon." With that, it fades away.

---

Treasure. A detect magic spell reveals that the thighbone radiates an aura of evocation magic. See appendix C for more information on Saint Markovia's thighbone.

## Crypt 7

The stone door of this crypt lies on the floor, its inscription obscured by fog. The crypt gapes open. A skull, some bones, and a few bits of rusted armor lie atop a marble slab with a leering stone gargoyle squatting at each end.

---

The epitaph on the door reads "Endorovich (Endorovich the Terrible): What the blood of a hundred wars did not do, the spurn of a woman accomplished." Endorovich was a ruthless soldier and self-aggrandizing noble who loved a woman named Marya, but she loved another man. As Marya and her lover were dining, Endorovich put poison into the man's wineglass. The glasses were mixed up, and Marya drank the poison instead. The lover was hanged for murdering Marya and buried at the Ivlis River crossroads (chapter 2, area F). Endorovich never got over his guilt and, out of madness, killed many in his lifetime.

Endorovich's spirit is trapped inside one of the gargoyles. If anyone disturbs the bones on the slab, one of the gargoyles awakens and attacks. If the gargoyle is reduced to 0 hit points, Endorovich's spirit moves to the second gargoyle, which then awakens and attacks. Both gargoyles have maximum hit points (77). Once the second gargoyle is destroyed, Endorovich's spirit is laid to rest.

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

%% --- Page 118 --- %%
If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is contained in a secret compartment under Endorovich's remains. Once his bones and dust are swept away, the compartment can be found and opened without an ability check.

## Crypt 8 

**Duchess Dorfniya Dilisnya**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Hanging on the back wall is a handsome quilt that depicts a royal feast.

The quilt is magically preserved but not valuable.

## Crypt 9

**Pidlwick-Fool of Dorfniya**

A small skeleton wearing the remains of a fool's costume lies atop a stumpy marble slab in the center of the crypt.

If Pidlwick II (see area K59) is with the party, it refuses to enter the crypt. The slab in this crypt is 4 feet long (instead of the usual 6 feet long). The bones atop the slab belong to the fool servant of Duchess Dorfniya Dilisnya (see crypt 8).

Treasure. If the characters explore this crypt after summoning the ghost of Pidlwick in area K36, they find a small, flat wooden box on the marble slab next to Pidlwick's bones. The box contains a full deck of illusions.

## Crypt 10

**Sir Leonid Krushkin (Sir Lee the Crusher): Bigger than life, he loved his jewelry**

An oversized skeleton draped in jewelry and rags lies atop an elongated marble slab in the center of the crypt. Leaning against the slab is a bloodstained maul strung with cobwebs.

Sir Lee stood well over seven feet tall. His maul might give the characters pause, but it is harmless and nonmagical.
Treasure. Three jeweled necklaces (worth 750 gp each) are lying across Sir Lee's skeleton.

## Crypt 11

**Tasha Petrovna-Healer of Kings, Light unto the West, Servant, Companion**

A skeleton wearing tattered priestly vestments lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. The domed ceiling overhead is painted with a glorious sun mural.

Creatures that would take damage from exposure to sunlight (such as vampires) have disadvantage on all ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws while inside this crypt.

Treasure. Draped around the neck of the skeleton is a sun-shaped holy symbol (worth 25 gp ). A good-aligned character who picks up the holy symbol hears a ghostly female voice. It whispers the following message:
"There is a grave to the west, with roses that never die, in a place built by healers, in a village called Krezk. When all turns to darkness, touch this holy symbol to the grave to summon the light and find a treasure long lost."

The message refers to a gravestone in the Abbey of Saint Markovia (chapter 8, area S7).

%% --- Page 119 --- %%


## Crypt 12

**King Troisky—The Three-Faced King**

There are no bones atop the marble slab in this crypt, only a steel helm with a visor shaped like an angry face.

The helm has three evenly spaced visors crafted to look like human faces—one sad, one happy, and one angry. Only the angry visage is visible from the crypt's doorway. King Troisky wore this three-faced helm in battle, earning him the moniker of Three-Faced King. The helm is nonmagical and weighs 10 pounds.

The slab upon which the helm rests is weight-sensitive. If the helm is removed from the slab without 10 pounds of weight immediately being added, poisonous gas pours out of the slab's hollow interior and fills the crypt. A character who searches the slab for traps and succeeds on a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check spots tiny holes bored into the slab's marble base. It's from these holes that the gas spews forth.

A creature in the crypt when the gas is released must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

## Crypt 13

**King Katsky (Katsky the Bright): Ruler, inventor, and self-proclaimed time traveler**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Lying amid the bones is a stoppered drinking horn, a fat pouch, and a weird-looking scepter made of metal and wood. Above the bones, hanging from the domed ceiling by wires, is a wooden flying contraption that looks like a set of folding dragon wings fitted with leather straps, metal buckles, and taut leather wing flaps.

The stoppered drinking horn is a water-resistant powder horn loaded with gunpowder, and the "weird-looking scepter" is a musket. The fat pouch contains 20 silver marbles (silvered bullets for the musket). For more information on firearms and explosives, see chapter 9, "Dungeon Master's Workshop," of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*.

### **Glider.** 
Any Small or Medium humanoid can wear the dragon-wing glider. (It takes 1 minute to don or doff the glider.) It can't support more than 80 pounds, although the amount of weight it can carry is not evident. A character who inspects the glider in an attempt to discern its maximum weight allowance can do so accurately with a successful DC 15 Intelligence check.

If its wearer is light enough (accounting for gear), the apparatus can be used to glide, but only in wide-open spaces where there is room to maneuver. The wearer can become airborne by stepping or jumping off a high place, or by performing a high jump to take off from level ground. While aloft, the wearer gains a flying speed equal to its walking speed, with the following limitations: except in a significant updraft, the wearer can't use the glider to gain altitude, and the glider descends 1 foot for every 10 feet of horizontal distance covered. At the end of the flight, the wearer lands on its feet and the glider is intact. If the wearer tries to accelerate the rate of descent, the glider breaks, and the wearer falls.

The glider has AC 12, 1 hit point, and a 15-foot wingspan. Any damage causes it to break and become inoperable. A mending cantrip can repair the damage, provided all the broken pieces are present.

## Crypt 14

**Stahbal Indi-Bhak: A truer friend no ruler ever had. Here lies his family in honor.**

If the characters open the door to this crypt, read:

A ten-foot-square shaft plunges into darkness. The sound of slowly dripping water echoes up the shaft.

Characters who have darkvision or a sufficient light source can see that the shaft descends 40 feet to some kind of vault deep in the Pillarstone of Ravenloft. Stones protrude from the shaft at regular intervals, offering handholds and footholds. The stones are slippery, however, so a character is to scale the wall without the aid of magic or the use of a climber's kit must make a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check.


%% --- Page 120 --- %%

### Vault. 
When the characters reach the bottom of the shaft, read:

---
At the bottom of the shaft is a dank vault with a ten-foot-high ceiling. The room is awkwardly shaped and smells of rotten meat. Fifteen stone coffins are scattered
throughout the vault, all oriented with their heads pointed north. The floor is covered with human bones and rusty swords.

---

If a character teleports into a coffin from one of the teleport traps that protect Strahd's tomb (area K86), read the following to that character's player:

A flash of light explodes around you, and then you are plunged into absolute darkness, suddenly lying in a confined space choked with dust.

This vault contains fifteen wights (one per coffin), minus any that have been teleported away (see "Teleport Traps" at the start of this section). Lifting a coffin's lid requires an action and a successful DC 15 Strength check.

Each wight remains inactive until it is teleported away or until its coffin is opened, whereupon it attacks.
The bones and rusty swords cover the floor to a depth of 6 inches, and are the remains of servants who swore to avenge Stahbal Indi-Bhak's family. Whenever a wight is killed in this vault, some of the bones knit together, forming 2d6 animated human skeletons. These skeletons attack intruders on sight but have no ranged attacks. There are enough bones and swords in the room for one hundred skeletons to form in this manner.

## Crypt 15 

**Khazan: His word was power**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. The skull has black opals set in its eye sockets and shards of amber where its teeth should be.

Khazan was a powerful archmage who unlocked the secrets of lichdom, then later tried to become a demilich and failed. Neither his skull nor his bones pose any threat, but the gems embedded in the skull are valuable.

### Treasure. 
The skull's black opal eye-gems are worth 1,000 gp apiece. The skull also has eight amber teeth worth 100 gp each.
Any creature that stands inside the crypt and boldly speaks the name "Khazan" causes the Pillarstone of Ravenloft to tremble as a staff of power materializes above the marble slab and hovers in place. The first creature to grab hold of the staff must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Afterward, the staff of power can be held and used normally. If no one grabs the staff within 1 round of its appearance, it vanishes, never to return.

## Crypt 16

**Elsa Fallona von Twitterberg (Beloved Actor): She had many followers**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Nine shallow alcoves are carved into the surrounding walls. The back wall of each alcove is painted with a full-body image of a handsome man. Some of the men wear fine clothes; others wear armor. At the feet of each painting rests a skull atop a pile of bones.

The bones in the niches belong to Elsa's nine consorts. There is nothing of value here.

## Crypt 17

**Sir Sedrik Spinwitovich (Admiral Spinwitovich)**: Confused though he was, he built the greatest naval force ever assembled in a landlocked country

%% --- Page 121 --- %%
An eleven-foot-long funeral barge dominates this crypt, wedged diagonally into the available space. Lying in the boat is a skeleton draped in rags, with hundreds of gold coins piled around it.

The coins are made of clay painted gold and are worthless. The funeral barge, which was assembled inside the crypt, is too big to fit through the door.

## Crypt 18 

The stone door of this crypt has been carefully laid to one side. Through the swirly mists of the perpetual fog, freshly engraved letters spell out the words "Ireena Kolyana: Wife."

The crypt is empty and has been swept clean. This is where Strahd intends to keep Ireena once he turns her into a vampire spawn.

## Crypt 19

**Artimus (Builder of the Keep)**: Thou standest amidst the monument to his life

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt.

This crypt contains nothing of interest.

## Crypt 20

**Sasha lvliskova-Wife**

Webs as thick and pale as linen cover a shapely female form lying atop a marble slab in the center of this dusty, web-filled crypt. You hear a voice issue from the darkness.
"My love, have you come to set me free?"
The woman rises, the shroud of webs clinging to her in a ghastly fashion.

This vampire spawn is an old wife of Strahd's. Once she realizes that the characters aren't her husband, Sasha tears away her web shroud like an unloved wedding dress and attacks.

## Crypt 21

**Patrina Velikovna-Bride**
The creature inside this crypt attacks as soon as the door is opened.

From the darkness comes a horrifying visage, a spectral elf maiden twisted by the horror of her undead existence. She wails, and the very sound claws at your soul.

The spectral elf is a banshee that attacks the characters on sight, using her wail immediately. Once awakened, the banshee is free to roam Castle Ravenloft, but she can't travel more than 5 miles from this crypt.

In life, Patrina Velikovna was a dusk elf who, having learned a great deal about the black arts, was nearly a match for Strahd's powers. She felt a great bond with him and asked to solemnize that bond in a dark marriage. Drawn to her knowledge and power, Strahd consented, but before he could drain all life from Patrina, her own people stoned her to death in an act of mercy to thwart Strahd's plans. Strahd demanded, and got, Patrina's body. She then became the banshee trapped here.

Reducing the banshee to 0 hit points causes it to discorporate. Patrina's spirit can't rest, however, until she is formally wed to Strahd; the banshee re-forms in her crypt 24 hours later. Casting a hallow spell on the crypt prevents the banshee from returning for as long as the spell lasts.

### Treasure. 
Read the following text when the characters investigate Patrina's crypt:

%% --- Page 122 --- %%
In the center of the crypt, a skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab, surrounded by thousands of coins.

Patrina's crypt contains $250 \mathrm{pp}, 1,100 \mathrm{gp}, 2,300 \mathrm{ep}, 5,200 \mathrm{sp}$, and $8,000 \mathrm{cp}$. The coins are of a mixed origin. The platinum and electrum coins have Strahd's profiled visage stamped on them. Buried under the coins is Patrina's spellbook, which has carved wooden covers. It contains all the spells listed for the archmage in the Monster Manual.

### Development. 
If she is restored to life by her brother (see "Kasimir's Dark Gift" in the "Special Events" section in chapter 13), Patrina (NE female dusk elf) returns as an archmage with no spells prepared. If the characters have her spellbook, she kindly asks them to give it back to her so that she can prepare her long-forgotten spells and help destroy Strahd (a lie). If the characters oblige, she repays their kindness by learning as much about them as possible before pursuing her own goals.

## Crypt 22 

**Sir Erik Vonderbucks**

A gilded man lies atop a marble slab in the center of this otherwise barren crypt.

Sir Erik Vonderbucks was a wealthy noble whose dying wish was to have his corpse dipped in molten gold.
### Treasure. 
The thin layer of gold, if peeled from Sir Erik's desiccated corpse, is worth 500 gp .

## Crypt 23

The first time the characters happen upon this crypt, they see one of their names (determined randomly) etched into the door. Opening the crypt releases a horrid stench of decay and reveals a corpse lying on the marble slab within. The corpse looks like the character named on the door. Touching the corpse causes it to melt away, whereupon the inscription fades. On later visits to this crypt, the door is unmarked and the crypt is empty.

## Crypt 24

**Ivan Ivliskovich, Champion of Winter Dog Racing: The race may go to the swift, but vengeance is for the loser's relatives**

A skeleton draped in bits of fur lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. The walls and ceiling are covered with plaster painted to make the crypt seem as if it stands in an evergreen forest, surrounded by snow. The plaster has peeled and fallen away in many places, shattering the illusion.

This crypt contains nothing of interest.

## Crypt 25

**Stefan Gregorovich: First Counselor to King Barov von Zarovich**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Most of the bones appear dusty and neglected, but the skull is well polished.

A detect magic spell cast here reveals that Stefan's skull radiates a faint aura of necromancy magic. As long as the skull remains in the crypt, it will answer up to five questions put to it, as though a speak with dead spell had been cast on it. This property recharges each day at dawn. In life, Stefan was neither observant nor well informed. If the skull is questioned about Strahd or Castle Ravenloft, all the information it provides is untrue.

## Crypt 26

**Intree Sik-Valoo: He spurned wealth for the knowledge he could take to heaven**

%% --- Page 123 --- %%
A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Most of the bones appear dusty and neglected, but the skull is well polished.

A detect magic spell cast here reveals that Intree's skull radiates a faint aura of necromancy magic. As long as the skull remains in the crypt, it will answer up to five questions put to it, as though a speak with dead spell had been cast on it. This property recharges each day at dawn. Unlike Stefan Gregorovich in crypt 25, Intree was well educated and astute. If the skull is questioned about Strahd or the castle, the information it provides is true.

## Crypt 27 

This crypt is missing its door.

Three giant wolf spiders infest this otherwise empty crypt. The spiders make no noise and leap out to attack anyone who moves in front of the crypt's gaping doorway.

## Crypt 28

**Bascal Ofenheiss-Chef Deluxe**

A skeleton draped in white linen lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt, clutching a bell to its sunken chest. Fitted over its skull is a tall chef's hat.

If the bell is rung inside the crypt, magic fire sweeps through the crypt to scorch Chef Ofenheiss's bones. A creature in the crypt must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half damage on a successful one. Any creature that fails its save catches fire, taking 5 (1d10) fire damage at the end of each of its turns until it or another creature uses an action to douse the flames.

### Treasure. 
Tucked under the chef's hat is an electrum spork with a bejeweled handle (worth 250 gp ).

## Crypt 29

**Baron Eisglaze Drüf**

Opening the door causes the air around you to turn as cold as the coldest hell you can imagine. Every surface inside the crypt is covered with thick, brownish mold.

A patch of brown mold (see "Dungeon Hazards" in chapter 5, "Adventure Environments," of the Dungeon Master's Guide) fills the crypt. Characters within 5 feet of the crypt's open doorway are affected.

If the brown mold is killed off, characters can dig through the moldy crust to find the bones of Baron Drüf lying atop a marble slab.
### Treasure. 
Hidden under the brown mold next to the baron's bones is a luck blade with one wish remaining. If a creature uses the wish to try to escape from Barovia, the spell fails. If a creature uses the sword to wish for Strahd's destruction, the wish doesn't destroy Strahd but rather teleports him to within 5 feet of the sword.

## Crypt 30

**Prefect Ciril Romulich (Beloved of King Barov and Queen Ravenovia): High Priest of the Most Holy Order**

A marble slab in the center of the crypt displays a skeleton draped in red vestments, a golden holy symbol clutched in one bony hand. The domed ceiling fifteen feet above is painted to look like a canopy of trees with bright autumn leaves. A narrow stone ledge encircles the crypt ten feet above the floor. Perched on it are dozens of stone ravens, their eyes fixed on the marble slab.

The carved ravens are ominous yet harmless.

%% --- Page 124 --- %%
### Treasure. 
The prefect's gold holy symbol is festooned with tiny gemstones and is worth 750 gp . If touched by an evil creature, the holy symbol is consumed in a blast of intense light that deals 11 (2d10) radiant damage to all creatures within 5 feet of it. Characters familiar with Barovian religion recognize the symbol as that of the Morninglord.

## Crypt 31 

**We knew him only by his wealth**

This crypt is empty. Its walls are painted to depict mountains of gold coins.

The floor of the crypt is actually the cover of a 30 -foot-deep spiked pit. The cover opens if 100 pounds of weight or more are placed on it. It splits down the middle, east to west, and its doors are spring-loaded. After a victim or victims fall into the pit, its doors snap shut. (See "Sample Traps" in chapter 5, "Adventure Environments," of the Dungeon Master's Guide the rules on locking pits and spiked pits.) The spikes at the bottom of the pit are made of iron but aren't poisoned.

### Treasure. 
A human skeleton (the remains of a dead adventurer) wrapped in bits of studded leather armor lies amid the spikes at the bottom of the pit. A shattered lantern and a rusty crowbar lie nearby. Tied to the corpse's leather belt is a 50 -foot coil of hempen rope, a dagger in a worn scabbard, a pouch containing 25 pp , and a stoppered wooden tube containing a spell scroll of magic circle.

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is lying next to the skeleton at the bottom of the pit.

## Crypt 32

The door to this crypt has no name or epitaph on it.

This crypt is empty except for two alcoves in the back wall. Above the alcoves are carved the following words: Pass Not These Portals Ye Foolish Mortals

A detect magic spell reveals that both alcoves radiate strong auras of conjuration magic.
Creatures that enter the eastern alcove of this crypt are teleported to the eastern alcove of Strahd's tomb (area K86). Stepping into the western alcove of this crypt has no effect, but any creature that teleports from the western alcove of area K86 appears here.

## Crypt 33

**Sir Klutz Tripalotsky: He fell on his own sword**

In the center of this crypt, atop a marble slab, human bones lie amid the empty shell of a suit of rusty plate armor. Plunged through the armor's breastplate is a longsword.

Neither Sir Klutz's armor nor his longsword are magical or valuable.
If the sword is pulled from the armor, Sir Klutz appears as a phantom warrior (see appendix D), thanks whoever pulled his weapon free, and agrees to fight alongside that character for the next seven days. Sir Klutz perished years before Strahd became a vampire, so the phantom warrior knows nothing of Strahd's downfall or the curse afflicting Barovia.

## Crypt 34

**King Dostron the Hellborn**

Resting in the center of this crypt is a seven-foot-long gilded sarcophagus, its lid painted with the likeness of a screaming king wearing a crown of horns. Looming

%% --- Page 125 --- %%
King Dostron was an ancient ruler of this land, long before the arrival of Strahd. He claimed descent from a duke of the Nine Hells, and his deeds did justice to this ancestry. His sarcophagus is made of beaten lead and encased in gold (see "Treasure" below). Its lid can be pried open with a crowbar or similar tool, revealing nothing but dust within. The stuffed owlbear is a late addition to the crypt's decor-a gift given to Strahd that wound up here. It looks almost alive but is harmless.

An invisible imp is perched atop the owlbear. If someone tries to open the sarcophagus, the imp says in Common, "I wouldn't do that if I were you!" The imp is magically bound to King Dostron's remains and must watch over them for several more centuries before its contract are fulfilled. It isn't obligated to protect the contents of the crypt (so it will not attack), and it delights in telling lies and engaging in mischief. For instance, it warns the characters that the sarcophagus is trapped, and that opening the lid will free a pit fiend bound within.

### Treasure. 
Characters who take the time to pry the gold from the sarcophagus can amass 500 gp worth of the precious metal, weighing 10 pounds.

## Crypt 35 

**Sir Jarnwald the Trickster: The joke was on him**

A charnel stench fills this empty crypt.

The floor here is an illusion that hides a 20-foot-deep pit. The sides of the pit are polished smooth; a creature without a climbing speed can't move along them without the aid of magic or a climber's kit. At the bottom of the pit are six starving ghouls. A permanent silence spell suppresses sound in the pit. The silence can be dispelled, as can the illusory floor (DC 14 for both).

Treasure. Sir Jarnwald was "entombed" here, so far as he was pushed into the crypt and devoured by the ghouls. What remains of him lies scattered on the pit floor: a few scraps of clothing, a handful of teeth, and a signet ring that bears a stylized "J" (worth 25 gp ).

## Crypt 36

Claw marks obliterate the name on this crypt's door.

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt.

This crypt contains nothing of interest.

## Crypt 37

**Gralmore Nimblenobs-Wizard Ordinaire**

Lying on a marble slab in the center of this crypt is the corpse of a man with a long white beard. His skin clings tightly to his skull and bones, and he wears dusty red robes. Clutched to his chest is a wooden staff that has a brass knob on one end and a marble knob on the other.

The staff is a nonmagical quarterstaff.
Inspection of the marble slab reveals a shallow, concave recess at one end. If the marble-knobbed end of Gralmore's staff is placed in the recess, the slab levitates 5 feet upward, revealing a compartment underneath (see "Treasure" below). The slab slowly sinks back into place after 1 minute. If the brassknobbed end of the staff is placed in the recess, the holder of the staff takes 22 (4d10) lightning damage.

### Treasure. 
The compartment under the slab holds a small, black leather case containing three spell scrolls (cone of cold, fireball, and lightning bolt).

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is in the compartment with the other treasure.

%% --- Page 126 --- %%

## Crypt 38

**General Kroval "Mad Dog" Grislek (Master of the Hunt): A leader of hounds and men**

When the characters open the door to this crypt, read:

The stench of brimstone and burnt fur spills from this crypt. In its darkness are three pairs of glowing red eyes.

Three hell hounds lunge forth and attack, fighting to the death. In the round after they attack, General Grislek's wraith emerges from the crypt, uttering commands to the hounds in Infernal. Once these evil creatures are slain, the characters can inspect the crypt more closely.

Bits of incinerated bone lie strewn atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Lying amid the bones are fragments of a shattered spear with a silvered head. The walls and domed ceiling of the crypt are covered with scorched murals that depict legions of infantry and cavalry clashing on battlefields.

A mending cantrip can repair the spear, which is broken into three pieces of roughly equal length. If repaired, it can be wielded as a silvered, nonmagical spear.

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is in a secret compartment under Grislek's remains. Once his charred bones are cleared away, the compartment can be found and opened without an ability check.

## Crypt 39

**Beucephalus, the Wonder Horse: May the flowers grow ever brighter where he trods**

The door to this crypt is larger than all the others, 6 feet wide by 8 feet tall. Removing or resetting the slab requires a successful DC 20 Strength check. When the door is opened, read:

Dry, hot air and smoke billow from the crypt as a black horse with a flaming mane and fiery hooves emerges. Smoke billows from its nostrils as it rears up to attack.

The nightmare, Beucephalus, is Strahd's steed. It has 104 hit points. If the characters slay it, Strahd hunts them down mercilessly. When the steed wants to leave the castle, it flies up the central shaft of the high tower (area K18a), exiting through the gash in the tower roof (area K59).

## Crypt 40

**Tatsaul Eris—Last of the Line**

A skeleton draped in rags lies atop a marble slab in the center of the crypt. Mounted on the north, east, and south walls are three unlit torches in iron brackets.

When a creature enters this tomb for the first time, the torches burst into flame and continue to burn until they are spent or extinguished.

Examination of the skull and bones reveals that they are plaster facsimiles.