# WotC source:
# K86. Strahd's Tomb

A heavy portcullis stands closed in the archway leading to this tomb. Lifting it requires a successful DC 25 Strength check.

Black marble steps descend to a dark tomb that has a vaulted ceiling thirty feet overhead. The essence of evil permeates the very air. The smell of freshly turned earth is here. Settled into the dirt on the floor is a shining black coffin of finely waxed wood. The coffin's fittings are of brilliant brass, and the lid is closed. South of the coffin are three gloomy alcoves. An iron lever protrudes from the north wall, east of the tomb's entrance.

Raising the lever lifts the portcullis at the top of the stairs. Pulling it down lowers the portcullis.

Lying under the earth near the east wall of the tomb are three vampire spawn brides dressed in soiled gowns and wearing dirt-encrusted jewelry (see "Treasure" below). They rise to attack anyone who approaches Strahd's coffin.

A *detect magic* spell reveals that the western and eastern alcoves radiate strong auras of conjuration magic. The central alcove is nonmagical.

Creatures that enter the western alcove are instantly teleported to the western alcove of crypt 32 in area K84. Stepping into the eastern alcove has no effect, but any creature that teleports from the eastern alcove of crypt 32 appears here.

## Treasure

Strahd lavished many fine gifts on his three brides.

Ludmilla Vilisevic wears a soiled white wedding gown, a gold tiara (worth 750 gp), and ten gold bracelets (worth 100 gp each).

Anastrasya Karelova wears a stained and tattered red wedding gown, a black and crimson silk head scarf sewn with precious jewels (worth 750 gp), and a platinum necklace with a black opal pendant (worth 1,500 gp).

Volenta Popofsky wears a faded gold wedding gown, a platinum mask shaped vaguely like a skull (750 gp), and ten platinum rings set with gemstones (worth 250 gp each).

## Teleport Destination

Characters who teleport to this location from area K78 arrive at the bottom of the stairs, just inside the tomb.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it lies in the center alcove.

If your card reading indicates an encounter with Strahd in this area, he is in his coffin, ready to attack anyone who opens the lid.