# WotC source:
# N8. Town Square 

The shops and homes that enclose the town square are decorated with limp, tattered garlands and painted wooden boxes filled with tiny, dead flowers. At the north end of the square stands a row of stocks, locked in which are several men, women, and children wearing crude, plaster donkey heads.

In the center of the square, peasants in patchwork clothes eye you suspiciously as they use cups and vases to draw water from a crumbling stone fountain. Standing tall at the center of the fountain is a gray statue of an impressive man facing west. All around the square are posted proclamations:

Come one, come all,
to the greatest celebration of the year:
THE WOLF'S HEAD JAMBOREE!
Attendance and children required.
Pikes will be provided.
ALL WILL BE WELL!
-The Baron-

The Wolf's Head Jamboree has already occurred, making the square's proclamations out of date. If the characters linger, they see the burgomaster's henchman, Izek Strazni (see appendix D), arrive with two town guards. Izek orders one guard to tear down all of the old proclamations while the other posts the following new one:

COME ONE, COME ALL,
to the greatest celebration of the year:
THE FESTIVAL OF THE BLAZING SUN!
Attendance and children required.
Rain or shine.
ALL WILL BE WELL!
-The Baron-

Most Vallakians have no idea whom the statue in the square represents. The burgomaster claims it is Boris Vallakovich, his ancestor and the town's founder, but there's no noticeable family resemblance.

## Donkey-Headed Criminals

The townsfolk in the stocks were arrested for "malicious unhappiness" (spreading negative opinions about the upcoming festival). An iron padlock secures each set of stocks, and Izek Strazni carries the keys on an iron ring.

Three men, two women, and two boys are trapped in the stocks-all of them tired, wet, and famished. The five adults have the statistics of human commoners, and the children are noncombatants. The plaster donkey heads they wear are meant to encourage ridicule.

%% --- Page 162 --- %%
Freeing one or more prisoners without the baron's consent is a crime. If the characters are witnessed doing so, lzek rallies the town guards (twenty-four in all) and orders the characters to leave town at once or suffer the consequences. If the characters stand their ground, lzek orders the guards to beat them into submission, seize their weapons, and cast them out of Vallaki to be "food for the wolves."

If the characters are exiled from Vallaki without their weapons, the Keepers of the Feather (see area N2) snatch the party's belongings from under lzek's nose and see them safely returned to the characters.

If the guards fall to waylay the characters, lzek (if he's still around) flees to the burgomaster's mansion, giving the characters the run of the town. The townsfolk lock themselves in their homes, fearful that the characters aim to murder them.