# WotC source:
# Q6. Dragon's Den

This wood-paneled den has been ransacked, its furnishings tossed about. A cold, dark hearth dominates the west wall between two narrow windows. Standing upright against the north wall is a sarcophagus made of black wood with a queen's effigy carved into its lid.

Argynvost had the empty sarcophagus converted into a wine cabinet. Now, only shattered wineglasses and decanters are to be found on the shelve ${ }^{-}$ ${ }^{-1}$ he den's other furnishings include rotted divans, broken chairs, overturned ottomans, and smashed oil lamps.

%% --- Page 180 --- %%
A secret door at the north end of the east wall can be pushed open to reveal a storage room (area Q11).

## Living Fire 

If the beacon of Argynvostholt (area Q53) has not been lit, read the following text when the characters approach the fireplace for the first time:

A fire erupts in the dead hearth and assumes a draconic form. It hisses, crackles, and unfurls its smoky wings.

Have the player characters roll initiative. The fire acts on initiative count 10 and has AC 15, 1 hit point, and immunity to fire, poison, and psychic damage. If it is reduced to 0 hit points, it explodes and fills the room with fire, setting fire to the dry furnishings. Each creature in the room must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The fire doesn't attack. On its first turn, if it has not been reduced to 0 hit points, it speaks:

The fiery dragon hisses as it addresses you. "My knights have fallen into darkness. Save them if you can. Show them the light they have lost!" With that, the fire burns out.

The dragon refers to the Order of the Silver Dragon and the beacon (area Q53).