# WotC source:
# S12. Courtyard

%% --- Page 205 --- %%
The thick fog that fills this courtyard swirls, as if eager to escape. The courtyard is surrounded by a fifteen-foot-high curtain wall on which stand several guards with their backs to you-or so it seemed at first. It's clear now that these guards are merely scarecrows.

Wooden doors to the north and east lead to the abbey's two wings. In the center of the courtyard is a stone well fitted with an iron winch, to which a rope and bucket are attached. Along the perimeter, tucked under the overhanging wall, are several stone sheds with padlocked wooden doors, as well as three shallow alcoves that contain wooden troughs. Two wooden posts pounded into the rocky earth have iron rings bolted to them, and chained to one of them is a short humanoid with bat wings and spider mandibles.

The quiet is shattered by horrible screams coming from the sheds.

If the characters are escorted here by Otto and Zygfrek Belview (area S6), they are asked to wait in the courtyard while the mongrelfolk fetch the Abbot from area S13.

## S12a. Well 

The well is 80 feet deep. Hiding 20 feet down is a chaotic evil mongrelfolk (see appendix D) named Mishka Belview. He clings to the wall of the shaft and scuttles up to attack anyone who shines a light down on him.

Mishka Belview. Mishka stands 5 feet tall and has a wiry, spindly build. He has three red spider eyes on the right side of his face, while the left side appears human. He has a frog's foot in place of his left hand and a taloned crow's foot where his right foot should be.

He has the Spider Climb feature (see the mongrelfolk stat block in appendix D). In his madness, he's discovered he enjoys killing people.

## S12b. Old Troughs

These three horse troughs are badly rotted and fall apart if handled or jostled.

## S12c. Chicken Sheds

Each of these sheds is fitted with an iron padlock. Clovin Belview (area S17) carries the keys to these locks.
If the characters open a shed, read:

This shed holds the shattered remains of several chicken coops. Shackled to the back wall is a wretched humanoid with bestial deformities.

There are nine of these sheds, each one containing a howling or mewling mongrelfolk (see appendix D).

## S12d. Tethering Posts

Iron rings bolted to these wooden posts were once used to secure horses. Chained to one post is a chaotic neutral mongrelfolk (see appendix D) named Marzena Belview, the older sister of Mishka Belview (see area S12a).

If the characters approach Marzena, read:

The creature chained to the post flaps its leathery wings and takes to the air, but doesn't get far before its chains go taut. She flutters about madly, screaming nonsense.

Marzena Belview is skittish and afraid of everyone and everything except for Clovin Belview (area S17), whom she allows to come close enough to feed her.

**Marzena Belview.** Marzena stands 4 feet, 5 inches tall and has a hunched posture. Long, stringy black hair hides much of her face, but clearly visible are the spider mandibles and teeth that replace her human mouth. She has the arms and wings of a bat, as well as a cloven hoof in place of her right foot. She doesn't allow anyone to get close enough to undo her shackles, but if her bonds are magically unlocked or if her chains are somehow broken, she flies away and never returns.

%% --- Page 206 --- %%
Marzena has the Flight feature (see the mongrelfolk stat block in appendix D). Her madness is embodied in the following statement: "I am convinced that powerful enemies are hunting me, and their agents are everywhere I go. I am sure they're watching me all the time."