# WotC source:
# S13. Main Hall

Gentle-sounding music trickles down from above, played on a single stringed instrument by some unseen master.
The ground floor is one large, fifty-foot-square room with arched, leaded glass windows. A cauldron sits on an iron rack above a fire in a hearth, while above the fireplace mantel hangs a golden disk engraved with the symbol of the sun. In one corner, a wooden staircase climbs to the upper level, while in another corner a stone staircase descends into darkness.

Several chairs surround a wooden table that stretches nearly the length of the room. Wooden dishware and gold candelabras are neatly arranged on the table, standing behind which is a young woman with alabaster skin dressed in a torn and soiled red gown. Her auburn hair is neatly bundled so as not to touch her soft shoulders. She seems lost in her own thoughts.

The Abbot is normally here. If he is here, add:

A handsome young man in a brown monk's robe gently takes the woman by her hand. A painted wooden holy symbol that depicts the sun hangs from a chain around his neck. He moves with the grace of a saint.

The Abbot is a deva in disguise (see appendix D, as well as "Something Old" in the "Special Events" section at the end of this chapter). He wears a holy symbol of the Morninglord around his neck. The woman in the tattered red gown is Vasilka, a flesh golem that has been exquisitely put together to serve as Strahd's bride. Characters within 5 feet of Vasilka can see the seams in her powdered skin where disparate body parts stolen from Krezkite graves have been carefully stitched together.

The Abbot is teaching Vasilka the finer points of etiquette. He also intends to teach her how to dance. Vasilka obeys his every command. She can't speak but lets loose an unholy scream if harmed. If driven berserk, she fights until the Abbot reasserts control or until she is destroyed. She has the supernatural strength of a typical flesh golem despite her smaller size.

The Abbot has no desire to harm the characters. He knows that Strahd has brought them to Barovia for a reason and doesn't want to thwart Strahd's plans for them. His calm, pleasant demeanor changes if they become hostile or if they threaten Vasilka. He sheds his disguise and assumes his true angelic form, hoping that sight is enough to make them back down.

The Abbot would like to find a proper bridal gown for Vasilka. If the characters seem friendly, he asks them for help in locating one. In exchange, he offers his magic, agreeing to cast raise dead up to three times on their behalf, or give them each the benefit of his healing touch. If they decline to help or behave rudely, he orders them to leave the abbey at once, attacking them if they refuse and doing his utmost to keep Vasilka safe.

The music comes from upstairs (area S17). The stone staircase leads down to the wine cellar (area S16). The wooden stairs climb to the loft and belfry (area S17).

The stew pot in the fireplace contains several gallons of hot turnip and rabbit soup, intended for the mongrelfolk imprisoned in areas S12c and S15.

## Roleplaying the Abbot

The Abbot believes he is righteous. He regrets transforming the Belviews into horrid mongrelfolk, and he considers their imprisonment to be necessary, to contain their madness. With regard to Strahd's bride, he believes that she is the key to freeing the land from its curse. The insane Abbot can't be convinced otherwise.

The Abbot shares his beliefs openly, claiming that his decisions are based on the Morninglord's guidance. He will give visitors a tour of the abbey if they seem friendly, but he turns hostile if they threaten him or his charges.

## Treasure

%% --- Page 207 --- %%
The golden sun disk hanging above the fireplace is worth 750 gp . Taking the disk off the wall reveals a niche that contains a potion of healing (superior) in a crystal and electrum flask (worth 250 gp ). Four gold candelabras (worth 250 gp each) rest atop the table.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft 

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is hidden in the niche along with the potion.