# WotC source:
# S15c. Incanting Mongrelfolk 

Seven mongrels are seated in the middle of this room, forming a ring. They appear to be chanting a spell.

These seven mongrelfolk are trying to cast a spell that will cause the abbey's bell to ring, so that dinner will be served. They are speaking nonmagical gibberish.

## S15d. Hungry Mongrelfolk

Nine mongrel creatures stand in the middle of this room, starting at the doorway in silence with hungry looks in their eyes.

These nine mongrelfolk haven't been fed in days because Clovin doesn't like them. They try to kill and devour any character who sets foot in the room.

## S15e. Mongrelfolk Horde

This room is packed wall to wall with mongrels wallowing in their own filth. The floor is strewn with gnawed bones.

Sixteen screaming mongrelfolk are confined here. The bones are all that remain of mongrelfolk who perished and were eaten. The survivors beg for food.

## S15f. Singing and Dancing Mongrelfolk

Eight mongrels caper about the wreckage of this bedchamber while singing a rhyme. One of them holds up a glittering gold statuette as it leads this mad parade.

The eight mongrelfolk sing the following rhyme:
The devil dwells in his dark house,
Upon the misty pillar.
First he'll taste her sweet, sweet blood,
And then he'll have to kill her.
They weep if their treasure is taken from them.
Treasure. The golden statuette depicts Saint Markovia and is worth 250 gp. It grants any good-aligned creature that carries it a +1 bonus to saving throws.

## S15g. Mongrelfolk Babies

Filthy mongrels cradle screaming young in the debris-strewn corners of this room while several more hoot, holler, roll on the floor, and whack each other with sticks.

This room contains ten mongrelfolk, three of which are tending to noncombatant mongrelfolk babies.

## S15h. Mongrelfolk Fort

%% --- Page 209 --- %%
This room contains a fort made out of piled bits of shattered furniture and tom draperies. From within the fort, you hear a mischievous cackle.

Two mongrelfolk live in the "fort" but refuse to come out unless baited with food. While hidden under the wreckage, they have three-quarters cover.