# WotC source:
# S2. Gatehouse

The map of Krezk includes a diagram of the gatehouse.

The air grows colder as you approach the walled settlement. Two square towers with peaked roofs flank a stone archway into which is set a pair of twelve-foot-tall, ironbound wooden doors. Carved into the arch above the doors is a name: Krezk.

%% --- Page 198 --- %%
Cut into the upper floor of each tower is an arrow slit 6 inches wide, 4 feet tall, and 1 foot deep. An open doorway leads from the archer's post in each tower to the adjacent parapet. Behind the walls, wooden ladders lead from the parapets to the ground 20 feet below.

Two archers (male and female human scouts) are stationed inside the gatehouse, one in each tower. Four guards (male and female humans) man the adjacent walls. If the characters are seen flying or climbing over the walls, the guards assume that the village is under attack and cry out in alarm. Five rounds after the alarm sounds, every able-bodied adult in the village arrives at the gatehouse, ready for battle. Krezk's militia consists of four more guards plus forty commoners (male and female humans) armed with handaxes.

The double doors are made of thick wood planks bound with iron bands and sealed shut with a heavy wooden bar held in iron brackets. The bar can be lifted with a successful DC 15 Strength check. The doors require a siege engine to break them open.

There aren't enough people in Krezk to adequately defend its outer wall. Every 300-foot stretch of wall is watched over by a lone guard (male or female human). The guards are trained to crouch behind the wall and sound the alarm at any sign of danger.

## Burgomaster Dmitri Krezkov 

If the characters ask to be let inside or otherwise draw the attention of the guards on the wall, one of the guards fetches the burgomaster, Dmitri Krezkov (LG male human noble). His ancestors built Krezk at the foot of the abbey after Strahd's armies conquered the valley.

Dmitri is a lord and expects to be treated like one. He places the safety of his village above the welfare of strangers. He has seen adventurers before and assumes that the characters are Strahd's allies or enemies; either way, their presence spells trouble for Krezk. Dmitri isn't prepared to shelter Strahd's enemies any more than he is willing to humor Strahd's allies. The only way the characters can earn his favor is to help Krezk in some way, whereupon Dmitri is required by his oath of office and his honor as a Barovian noble to show them hospitality. If the characters ask what they can do, Dmitri asks them to secure a wagonload of wine from the Wizard of Wines winery to the south. His people have been without wine for days, and the next delivery is long overdue.

If the characters force their way into town using magic or strength of arms, Dmitri tells his guards to stand down, hoping to avoid bloodshed, and does everything he can to expedite the characters' departure.

A character who succeeds on a DC 12 Wisdom (Insight) check can discern that Dmitri is trying to hide the fact that he is distraught. He is grieving over the natural death of his youngest son, Ilya-the last of his children (see area S3).