# WotC source:
# U2. Ulrich Mansion 

Toward the south end of the village lie the remains of a mansion built on higher ground. It has been reduced to piles of stone and rotting timber. Empty, arched windows stare at you. South of the ruin, an untamed garden runs rampant, surrounded by broken walls that are no longer able to contain it. East of the ruin, someone has erected a crude wooden fence, forming a circular yard in which several goats are penned. Surmounting the fence posts are human skulls.

The ruined mansion is littered with the rotted remains of furniture and decor. The last burgomaster of Berez, Lazlo Ulrich, haunts the ruin as a ghost. If the characters search the mansion, the ghost appears before them:

A ghost takes shape in the fog, assuming the form of a giant of a man, his features mutilated and his entrails hanging out like frayed ropes. Despite its intimidating presence, the apparition has a cringing light in its eyes. "Why do you invade my home? Begone, I beseech you!"

Strahd refuses to let Burgomaster Ulrich's spirit find rest because of what he did to poor Marina. The ghost recounts Marina's sad tale if prompted. Only by convincing Ulrich that Marina has been reborn in the form of Ireena Kolyana can the characters put the tortured spirit to rest. The ghost must see Ireena in the flesh, and it can't travel beyond the confines of the crumbled mansion.

Ulrich's ghost is neutral good. It attacks if threatened or if the characters begin searching the ruined mansion for treasure. If the ghost is reduced to 0 hit points, it re-forms after 24 hours. The characters receive experience points for the ghost only if they lay Ulrich's spirit to rest, not if they defeat the ghost in combat.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is hidden in Berez, Ulrich's ghost points the characters to the treasure's true location, saying these words as it fades away:
"Travel west. Two hundred paces from the mansion lies a monument to my folly and the treasure you seek."

Characters who follow Ulrich's directions end up at area U5.

## Cellar

Buried under rubble inside the mansion is a stone staircase that leads down to an intact cellar. A single character can clear the rubble in 4 hours, and multiple characters working together can reduce the time proportionately. The cellar is a 30 -foot-square room with mortared stone walls, a 10 -foot-high ceiling supported by wooden beams, and a floor submerged under 3 inches of stagnant water. The cellar contains two dozen empty, rotted casks from the Wizard of Wines winery. Each cask is labeled Champagne du le Stomp.

## Garden

The garden behind the ruined mansion has run wild. Hidden behind tall weeds and thorny vines are nude sculptures of handsome men and beautiful women, as well as carved stone benches.

Four giant poisonous snakes attack characters who venture more than 10 feet inside the garden.

## Goat Pen

Baba Lysaga captures goats and uses their blood in her rituals of longevity. Nine goats are trapped behind this fence. Fifty human skulls are mounted on the tops of the fence posts, spaced 10 feet apart.

%% --- Page 224 --- %%
There is no gate in the fence, and Baba Lysaga uses her flying skull (see area U3) to enter and leave the pen. If the characters try to set the goats free by dismantling or damaging part of the fence, the skulls atop the fence posts begin howling and continue to howl for 1 minute. The racket attracts Baba Lysaga, who arrives in her flying skull on initiative count 20 in 2 rounds. The howling skulls also attract the seven scarecrows in the marsh (see "Marsh Scarecrows" above). Roll initiative once for all the scarecrows.