# WotC source:
# U5. Marina's Monument

Strahd had this monument erected after Marina's death. The monument is hidden in the marsh, and the characters aren't likely to find it on their own unless they scour the area thoroughly. If they lay Burgomaster Ulrich's spirit to rest (see area U2), it points them to this location before fading away. Without Ulrich's guidance, the characters must enter the square in which the monument is located and search that area. A character who searches the area for 10 minutes can make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, finding the monument on a success. If the monument isn't found, the check can be repeated after another 10 minutes of searching.

The following boxed text assumes that the characters have met Ireena Kolyana. If they have not, don't read the sentence that mentions her.

%% --- Page 226 --- %%
Hidden by the fog and elevated a few feet above the surrounding marsh is a raised plot of land, barely ten feet on a side, enclosed by a disintegrating iron fence. In the center of the plot is a life-sized stone monument carved in the likeness of a kneeling peasant girl clutching a rose. Although her features are gray and weatherworn, she bears a striking resemblance to Ireena Kolyana. Carved into the monument's base is an epitaph.

The epitaph reads as follows: Marina, Taken by the Mists.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft 

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it is hidden in a cavity underneath the monument, which can be tipped over or moved aside by someone who makes a successful DC 15 Strength check.

If the characters disturb the monument, read:

The croaking frogs and chirping crickets fall silent, and the stench of decay grows strong. You hear the trudge of heavy footsteps through mud and water as bloated gray shapes shamble out of the fog.

Seven distended human corpses have risen from the mire west of the monument. These walking corpses are 60 feet away when first seen. Use the commoner statistics for the corpses, but reduce their walking speed to 20 feet and give them immunity to the charmed and frightened conditions. When a corpse is reduced to 0 hit points, it splits open, disgorging a swarm of poisonous snakes. The snakes are hungry and fight until slain.

Characters can take the treasure and flee, easily outpacing the snake-swollen corpses.