# WotC source:
# U6. Standing Stones

A dozen moss-covered menhirs form a near-perfect circle in the spongy earth. These weathered stones range in height from 15 to 18 feet. A couple of them lean inward as if to share some great secret with their inscrutable neighbors. A wary-looking peasant woman lurks behind the tallest stone, a rusty lantern clutched in one gnarled hand and a dagger clutched in the other.

The woman is Muriel Vinshaw, a wereraven (see appendix D) and friend of the Martikov family (see chapters 5 and 12). A resident of Vallaki, Muriel spies on Baba Lysaga for her fellow wereravens. However, she avoids the village proper, preferring to lurk on the outskirts. If the characters allow her to speak, Muriel warns them about the dangers of Berez and arms them with the following information:

- Berez was abandoned long ago after the river rose and flooded the village.
- An ancient and powerful hag named Baba Lysaga lives in a hut in the middle of the village. When not in her hut, Baba Lysaga flies around in a giant skull.
- The scarecrows of Berez are murderous creatures under the hag's control. They surround Baba Lysaga's hut and serve as an early warning system.
- Baba Lysaga periodically sends her scarecrows to attack the Wizard of Wines, a winery and vineyard west of Berez. She's made enemies of the Martikov family, which owns and operates the winery and vineyard.
- The hag has trapped several mountain goats in a pen near the ruins of an old mansion. (Muriel assumes that Baba Lysaga feeds on these animals.)

Muriel avoids combat and flees if attacked. She conceals her lycanthropic nature for as long as possible, and she doesn't willingly identify other wereravens with whom she's acquainted. She can't be persuaded to accompany the characters if they decide to confront Baba Lysaga. However, Muriel knows Barovia well enough to point out other nearby locations that might interest the adventurers, including the ruined mansion of Argynvostholt (see chapter 7) and the ancient burial ground known as Yester Hill (see chapter 14). Muriel grew up hearing stories about the druids of Yester Hill, specifically how they turned away from their ancient beliefs to worship the devil Strahd. Muriel knows that the druids visit the circle of standing stones from time to time, and she does her best to avoid them.

## Circle of Standing Stones

This ring of menhirs is one of the oldest structures in the Balinok Mountains - older than the Amber Temple, and much older than Castle Ravenloft and the various Barovian settlements scattered throughout the valley. The menhirs were raised by the same ancient folk who carved the megaliths nea.

%% --- Page 227 --- %%
Bonegrinder (see chapter 6). Characters who have seen those megaliths can, with a successful DC 10 Intelligence check, discern rudimentary similarities between those stones and the menhirs arranged here.

The circle is 100 feet across, and the menhirs are spaced apart at regular intervals. The stones located to the north, west, south, and east are taller than the other eight stones, which have weatherworn glyphs carved into them that represent different animals. Characters who inspect the smaller menhirs can discern the following animal shapes carved into them: bear, elk, hawk, goat, owl, panther, raven, and wolf.

The standing stones are nonmagical. However, druid characters who enter the circle can sense that powerful gods once blessed this site, and that it still holds some measure of power. They can also sense one of its properties, namely that creatures within the circle can't be targeted by any divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.

The circle has another property that druid characters can't sense but might discover when they use the Wild Shape feature within the circle's confines. Any druid that uses the Wild Shape feature within the circle gains the maximum number of hit points available to the new form. For example, a druid character using the Wild Shape feature to assume the form of a giant eagle would have $44(4 d 10+4)$ hit points while in that form.

At your discretion, the circle might have other strange properties that have been forgotten over time. Although she knows something of the circle's history, Muriel is unaware of its properties.