# WotC source:
# V7. Tower, Fourth Floor

Unlike the levels below, this room shows signs of recent habitation, and although the place reeks of mold and mildew, it has plenty of creature comforts, including a cozy bed, a desk with matching chair, bright tapestries, and a large iron stove with plenty of wood to feed it. Light enters through arrow slits as well as through dirtcaked windows with broken shutters. Other features of the room include a standing suit of armor and a wooden chest. Old wooden rafters bend under the weight of the tower roof, which has somehow remained intact. Mounted to the rafters are pulleys around which hang iron chains that support the tower's elevator platform.

%% --- Page 235 --- %%
Van Richten spent several months in this room, reviewing a lifetime's worth of research on Strahd von Zarovich - notes that, once he committed them to memory, he burned in the stove. He also burned his journals. Ezmerelda searched the room, hoping to find a clue to her mentor's plan or whereabouts. Among the things she found here was a rolled-up map of Barovia and a burned page from van Richten's journal, which she took and hid in her wagon (area V1).

The standing armor is a suit of animated armor. It is incapacitated until someone speaks the command word ("Khazan") within 10 feet of it, whereupon the armor follows the commands of the one who activated it. If 24 hours pass without its receiving a new instruction from its controller, the animated armor becomes incapacitated until someone reactivates it. If it is reduced to 0 hit points, the armor falls to pieces and is destroyed.

A lavender aroma emanates from the wooden chest, which is unlocked and safe to open. It contains the severed head of a human Vistana named Yan. Its flesh has a waxy complexion and has been embalmed with magic oils. If a speak with dead spell is cast on his head (which would need to be taken somewhere away from the tower's spell drain effect), Yan reveals that he was banished from his clan for stealing. A half-elf bard named Rictavio offered Yan a ride in his carnival wagon. The two traveled together for several days, but their time together was tense. When it was clear that Rictavio was looking for a road to Barovia, Yan tried to steal the wagon as well as Rictavio's pet monkey, but Rictavio got the better of him and drove a sword through his gullet.

The magic oils preserving Yan's head allow it to remember conversations it has while under the effect of speak with dead. Rictavio has cast speak with dead on the head twice to ask questions about the Vistani of Barovia. Yan believes that the half-elf plans to cause great harm to the Vistani and begs the characters to warn his people. He doesn't know where his body is.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft 

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it's in a narrow compartment hidden in the wall behind the suit of armor. If the armor is activated and commanded to retrieve the treasure, it pulls the stones out of the wall, revealing the treasure beyond.

If the characters have collapsed the tower (see area V2), they find the treasure after $1 \mathrm{~d} 8+2$ hours of searching through the rubble. For each hour they spend searching, they have a 10 percent chance of accidentally unearthing a clay golem (see area V4) that withstood the collapse. The golem, which took no damage from the collapsing tower, is berserk and attacks until destroyed.