# WotC source:
# X27. Lich's Lair 

This fifteen-foot-high room contains the trappings of royalty: ornate furniture, exquisite rugs and tapestries, and decorative statuary. Everywhere you look are lit candelabras atop small tables. The beauty of the decor is undone by thick dust and cobwebs. Standing in the center of the room is a decrepit skeleton clad in tattered robes.

Red pinpoints of light burn in the skeleton's eye sockets. "Do I know you?" it asks.

The lich has fewer hit points than normal ( 99 hit points), doesn't remember its name (Exethanter), and has forgotten all of its prepared spells. It does know its cantrips. In its current condition, the lich has a challenge rating of $10(5,900 \mathrm{XP})$. A greater restoration spell restores the lich's memory and all of its spells. Another casting of the spell restores its normal hit point maximum (135).

If the characters restore its memory, the lich gives them the passwords to all the locked doors in the Amber Temple (with the exception of the door into area X28, where its phylactery is hidden). It also provides all the information pertaining to Strahd and the temple presented at the start of this chapter. If the characters think to ask, it provides them with the command words for any of the books in the library (area K30).

If the characters restore its body, it offers to escort them while they explore the temple. The other creatures that inhabit the temple don't threaten the characters as long as the lich is with them.

The lich defends itself if attacked and turns to dust if it is reduced to 0 hit points.
The lich assumes that the characters have come seeking knowledge and power. If it is inclined to help them, it tells them how the amber sarcophagi work (as explained in the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar). The lich has no alliance with or animosity toward Strahd, and no interest in challenging Strahd for control of Barovia.

The furnishings here are in poor condition and fall apart easily.
There are three secret doors in this room. The secret door to area X28 has an arcane lock spell cast on it. The password to suppress the spell is "Exethanter."

## Treasure

The lich's ancient, bronze-covered spellbook sits on a rotted divan, in plain view. Inscribed on its spine is a title: The Incants of Exethanter. The spellbook contains all the spells on the lich's list of prepared spells (see the lich stat block in the Monster Manual). The lich attacks anyone who tries to take its spellbook.