# WotC source:
# X32. Lower East Hall

The walls and ceiling of this great hall are coated in amber that glistens like fresh honey. Dust covers the black marble floor. To the north, the hall has collapsed, leaving a wall of rubble.

Many amber doors lead from this hall. Standing in front of the south door are three ugly women in tattered black gowns with brooms and black, pointed hats.

An earth tremor collapsed the northern part of the hall. Three Barovian witches (see appendix D) are trying to open the amber door to area X33a by trying different passwords, unaware that they could gain entry through the shaft in area X6. Frustrated by their lack of progress, they vent their rage by attacking the characters. The witches let loose their three brooms of animated attack (see appendix D) while they cast spells.

## Development

If two of the witches are killed or incapacitated, the surviving witch attempts to escape by flying away on her broom. Only the witches can use the brooms of animated attack in this fashion.

## AMBER SARCOPHAGI

An amber sarcophagus looks like a rough block of solid amber 8 feet tall, 5 feet wide, and 5 feet thick. Trapped inside the block is a sliver or wisp of utter darkness no more than a few inches long. The darkness is the vestige of a dead and hateful god-a shard of pure evil with shreds of sentience and awareness. The vestige can't be harmed or controlled, and it is immune to all conditions.

An amber sarcophagus has AC 16, 80 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Destroying one causes the vestige trapped within it to disappear, leaving no trace. You choose whether it is banished or destroyed.

A creature that touches the amber sarcophagus forms a telepathic link with the vestige inside. The vestige offers the creature a dark gift. The creature must willingly accept the gift to gain its benefits. A dark gift is described to the creature in general terms; its precise game effect isn't revealed until the creature accepts the gift. For example, a creature that touches Fekre's sarcophagus in area X33a is offered the power to spread disease. That the gift grants the ability to cast the contagion spell is not articulated.

A dark gift functions like a charm (see "Supernatural Gifts" in chapter 7, "Treasure," of the Dungeon Master's Guide). A creature doesn't receive a dark gift if it is being manipulated or coerced, or if it declines the gift. Once it receives a dark gift, a creature can never receive that same dark gift again.

The instant a dark gift is bestowed, the creature receiving it undergoes a transformation, gaining a sinister physical trait or flaw, or one of each. Unless the text states otherwise, a trait or a flaw that accompanies this gift can't be removed by anything short of a wish spell or divine intervention.

Each time a non-evil creature accepts a dark gift, it must make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw. If the saving throw fails, the creature's alignment changes to evil. A character who turns evil becomes an NPC under the Dungeon Master's control, although the DM can allow the player to continue playing the evil character.