# WotC source:
# X33. Amber Vaults

%% --- Page 264 --- %%
Several of these amber-glazed rooms are located along the periphery of the complex. Each room contains two or more amber sarcophagi (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).

## X33a. Vault of Shalx 

The amber door to this room is sealed with an arcane lock spell. The password to suppress the spell is "Shalx." A character can push open the doors with a successful DC 25 Strength check. The door (AC 15, 30 hit points) can also be smashed. If the door is reduced to 0 hit points, necrotic energy fills the 30foot cube directly in front of it. A creature in the area takes 22 (4d10) necrotic damage, turning to dust and bones if reduced to 0 hit points.

Adjust the following text if the creatures in this room have already been encountered and destroyed.

This room has walls of glazed amber, a floor of red marble, and a rough-hewn shaft in the center of its ten-foot-high ceiling. Three amber sarcophagi stand in alcoves, and above each sarcophagus floats a human skull wreathed in green flame.

Three flameskulls guard this room. They attack intruders on sight.
The shaft in the ceiling is 10 feet wide and 20 feet long, with abundant handholds. No ability check is required to climb it. The shaft leads up to area X6. Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).

**West Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Fekre, Queen of Poxes. Fekre's gift is the power of spreading disease. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the contagion spell as an action. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary of this dark gift reeks of filth.
**South Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Zrin-Hala, the Howling Storm. Zrin-Hala's gift is the power to create lightning. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the lightning bolt spell as an action. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

As soon as this dark gift is received, one side of the beneficiary's face sags and loses all feeling.

**East Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Sykane, the Soul Hungerer. Sykane's gift is the power to raise the recently deceased. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the raise dead spell as an action. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

As soon as this dark gift is received, the beneficiary's eyes glow a sickly yellow until the dark gift vanishes. The beneficiary also gains the following flaw: "If I help someone, I expect payment in return."

## X33b. Vault of Maverus

The amber door to this room is sealed with an arcane lock spell. The password to suppress the spell is "Maverus." The door is otherwise identical to the door of area X33a.

This room has amber-glazed walls, a blue marble floor, and three amber sarcophagi standing in alcoves.

The ceiling here is 10 feet high. Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).

**North Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Savnok the Inscrutible. Savnok's gift is the power to shield the mind. This dark gift takes the form of a mind blank spell cast on the beneficiary. The spell has an extended duration of 1 year, after which the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary's eyes melt away upon receiving this dark gift, leaving empty sockets that can still see.

**East Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Tarakamedes, the Grave Wyrm. Tarakamedes's gift is the power of flight. The beneficiary of this dark gift grows skeletal wings and gains a flying speed of 50 feet.

The beneficiary of this dark gift must eat bones or grave dirt to survive. At dawn, if the creature has not eaten at least 1 pound of bones or grave dirt in the past 24 hours, it dies.

%% --- Page 265 --- %%
**South Sarcophagus.** The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Shami-Amourae, the Lady of Delights. Shami-Amourae's gift is the power of persuasion. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the suggestion spell as an action, and saving throws against the spell have disadvantage. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary of this dark gift gains an extra finger on each hand, as well as the following flaw: "I can't get enough pleasure. I desire others to create beauty for me at all times."

## X33c. Ghastly Vault 

The amber door to this room hangs open, and the chamber reeks of death.

This room has amber-glazed walls and a floor of dark green marble. Three amber sarcophagi stand in alcoves. Two feral humanoids with ghastly gray skin stare at you hungrily with three eyes-two normal eyes and a third lidless eye blinded by cataracts. Five more cling to the walls and ceiling.

The ceiling here is 10 feet high. The seven hungry ghasts that lair here fight to the death. The ghasts have the following additional feature:
Spider Climb. The ghast can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).
North Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Drizlash, the Nine-Eyed Spider. Drizlash's gift is the power to walk on walls and ceilings. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

The beneficiary of this dark gift grows an extra eye somewhere on its body. The eye is blind and ever open.
East Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Dahlver-Nar, He of the Many Teeth. Dahlver-Nar's gift is the power to live many lives. Upon receiving this dark gift, the beneficiary instantly reincarnates when it dies, as though it was the target of a reincarnate spell. The new body appears within 10 feet of the old one. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary of this dark gift loses all of its teeth until it reincarnates for the third and final time.
South Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Zantras, the Kingmaker. Zantras's gift is power that comes from great presence and force of personality. This dark gift increases the beneficiary's Charisma by 4, up to a maximum of 22.

The beneficiary of this dark gift gains the following flaw: "I won't take no for an answer."

## X33d. Breached Vault

The amber door to this room hangs open.

This room has amber-glazed walls and a floor of purplish-black marble. Two amber sarcophagi stand in alcoves to the west and east. A third sarcophagus that once stood in the north alcove lies shattered on the floor. Clustered in the middle of the room are four loathsome, hunched creatures. Each one has a single large, baleful eye.

The creatures huddled in this room are four nothics-former wizards reduced to this evil state by their mad quest for forbidden lore. The nothics use their Weird Insight feature to pry secrets from the characters. Although this power is wickedly invasive, the nothics don't consider their prying to be offensive, and so they are taken aback if the characters retaliate. The nothics fight only if one of them is accosted, or if the characters try to destroy the amber sarcophagi.

Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).
West Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Delban, the Star of Ice and Hate. Delban's gift is the power to unleash deadly cold. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the cone of cold spell as an action. After it has been used seven times, the dark gift vanishes. Until it vanishes, the beneficiary also gains the benefits of a ring of warmth.

The beneficiary of this dark gift gains the following flaw: "Fire terrifies me."

%% --- Page 266 --- %%
North Sarcophagus. This sarcophagus has been shattered in a way that suggests the vestige inside it somehow broke free.
West Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Khirad, the Star of Secrets. Khirad's gift is the power of divination. This gift allows its beneficiary to cast the scrying spell as an action. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary's voice becomes a low whisper, and its smile becomes cruel and evil.

## X33e. Vault of Harkotha 

The amber door to this room is sealed with an arcane lock spell. The password to suppress the spell is "Harkotha." The door is otherwise identical to the door of area X33a.

This room has amber-glazed walls, a black marble floor with red veins, and three amber sarcophagi standing in alcoves.

In the center of the room, a death slaad has cast invisibility on itself and stands ready with its greatsword in hand. The slaad attacks anyone who enters the room, fighting until slain. It can't leave the Amber Temple.

Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).

North Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Yrrga, the Eye of Shadows. Yrrga's gift is the power of true seeing. This dark gift grants its beneficiary the benefits of truesight out to a range of 60 feet. These benefits last for 30 days, after which the dark gift vanishes.

The eyes of the beneficiary become starry voids until the dark gift vanishes. The beneficiary of this dark gift also gains the following flaw: "I believe that all life is pointless and look forward to death when it finally comes."

West Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Great Taar Haak, the Five-Headed Destroyer. Taar Haak's gift is great strength. This dark gift grants its beneficiary the benefit of a belt of fire giant strength. This benefit lasts for 10 days, after which the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary of this dark gift the following flaw: "I like to bully others and make them feel weak and inferior."
South Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Yog the Invincible. Yog's gift is one of physical resilience. This dark gift increases the beneficiary's hit point maximum by 30 . This benefit lasts for 10 days, after which the dark gift vanishes.

Oily black fur covers the beneficiary's face and body.

## X33f. Vault of Thangob

The amber door to this room is sealed with an arcane lock spell. The password to suppress the spell is "Thangob." The door is otherwise identical to the door of area X33a.

This room has amber-glazed walls, a floor of grayish marble with black veins, and three amber sarcophagi standing in alcoves.

Characters who touch the amber sarcophagi are offered dark gifts by the evil vestiges contained within them (see the "Amber Sarcophagi" sidebar).

West Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Norganas, the Finger of Oblivion. Norganas's gift is the power to turn life into undeath. This dark gift allows its beneficiary to cast the finger of death spell as an action. After it has been used three times, the dark gift vanishes. When it vanishes, the beneficiary must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or drop to 0 hit points.

This dark gift turns the beneficiary's blood pitch black and viscid, like tar.
South Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Vaund the Evasive. Vaund's gift is the power of evasion. This dark gift grants its beneficiary the benefits of an amulet of proof against detection and location and a ring of evasion. These benefits last for 10 days, after which the dark gift vanishes.

The beneficiary of this dark gift becomes twitchy and nervous, and also gains the following flaw: "I can't give a straight answer to any question put to me."

%% --- Page 267 --- %%
East Sarcophagus. The vestige within this sarcophagus offers the dark gift of Seriach, the Hell Hound Whisperer. Seriach's gift is the power to summon and control hell hounds. As an action, the beneficiary of this dark gift can summon and control two hell hounds. Both hounds appear at the same time. The beneficiary can summon hounds only once, and the dark gift vanishes when they die.

The beneficiary gains the ability to speak and understand Infernal, if he or she doesn't already know the language. (The hell hounds understand no other language.) Sulfurous smoke issues from the beneficiary's pores whenever he or she speaks Infernal.