# WotC source:
# X5. Temple of Lost Secrets

Four black marble columns support the vaulted ceiling of the temple, at the north end of which stands a forty-foot-tall statue of a cowled figure in flowing robes. The statue's stony hands are outstretched as if in the midst of casting a spell. Its face is a void of utter blackness. The ominous statue stands between two black marble balconies, one of which has partially collapsed and fallen on the temple's black marble floor, in front of an open doorway. The walls of the temple are sheathed in amber, and the doors leading from it are made of amber as well. Arched hallways coated with amber lead away from the temple to the west and east. Flanking these exits are alcoves that hold white marble statues of robed human wizards with pointed hats and golden staffs. One of them has toppled over and lies shattered on the floor.

An arcanaloth named Neferon guards this temple from within the hollow head of the great statue (area X5a) and attacks characters on sight with its longer-ranged spells. Thanks to its truesight, the arcanaloth can see the invisible and can see through magical darkness. Characters can't see Neferon unless they can penetrate the magical darkness that envelops the statue's face and head.

Once the arcanaloth begins casting spells, the three flameskulls in area X17 take up positions behind the arrow slits that overlook the temple and cast magic missile and fireball spells at characters they can see.

The temple ceiling is 60 feet high. Wide, black marble staircases ascend 30 feet to the southern balcony (area X4). The balconies that flank the statue (areas X11 and X23) are 30 feet high as well.

Arrow slits cut into the walls of the upper galleries (areas X8 and X17) and archer posts (areas X13 and X25) look down on the temple. The amber glaze that covers the temple walls makes these arrow slits difficult to spot. Characters who have a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 12 or higher notice them. Creatures behind the arrow slits gain three-quarters cover.

The marble wizard statues stand 8 feet tall. Their 9-foot-tall golden staffs are made of wrought iron coated in peeling gold paint. The northeast statue fell over when an earth tremor collapsed the wall of its alcove.

## X5a. God of Secrets

This 40 -foot-tall statue, carved out of granite, depicts a faceless god of secrets. At the base of the statue, in the back, is a secret door that can be found with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. It can be pulled open to reveal a spiral staircase that climbs to a stone trapdoor set into the floor of the statue's hollow head.

### Statue's Head

Neferon the arcanaloth lairs inside the statue's hollow head, within a field of magical darkness that fills the interior of the head and hides the statue's humanlike face. The darkness can be dispelled (DC 17).

%% --- Page 253 --- %%
A pair of 2-foot-wide eyeholes provides an unobstructed view of the temple floor south of the statue, as well as the southern balcony (area X4). Looking through the eyes, one can't see the northern balconies (areas X11 and X23), the areas beneath them, or anywhere behind or directly above the statue. The eyeholes grant the arcanaloth three-quarters cover against attacks that originate outside the head.

Neferon wears gold spectacles and a magic robe (see "Treasure" below). It uses its alter self spell and Deception skill to pass itself off as an old human wizard with a long white beard named Heinrich Stolt. "Heinrich" feigns confusion. If the characters ask him why he attacked, he claims that he was guarding the temple. If the arcanaloth loses more than half of its hit points, it teleports to the temple floor, turns invisible, and flees by the safest route, attacking the characters again when it's safe to do so. The arcanaloth will not, under any circumstances, leave the Amber Temple.

### Treasure 

The arcanaloth carries a spellbook containing the wizard spells it has prepared (see its stat block in the Monster Manual). It wears small gold spectacles with pink crystal lenses (worth 250 gp ) and a robe of useful items with the following eight patches remaining:

- Bag of 100 gp
- Iron door
- Wooden ladder
- Riding horse
- Pit
- Rowboat
- Spell scroll (moonbeam)
- Mastiffs

See the robe's description in the Dungeon Master's Guide for more information on each patch.

### Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it's lying on the floor inside the statue's head.

## X5b. Secret Door

Set into the middle of the temple's north wall is a secret door. A character who searches the wall for secret doors and succeeds on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check detects seams in the amber glaze that covers the wall, hinting at the presence of the door. It is warded by an arcane lock spell that prevents it from being opened, but knocking on the door three times causes it to swing open for 1 minute, revealing a dusty stone staircase. The stairs climb 30 feet to another secret door that swings open automatically when a creature moves within 5 feet of it. The stairs lead to area X30.

## X5c. Locked Doors

These amber doors are sealed with an arcane lock spell. The password to suppress it is "Etherna." A character can push open the doors with a successful DC 25 Strength check. The doors (AC 15, 60 hit points) can also be smashed. If they are reduced to 0 hit points, necrotic energy fills the 30 -foot cube directly north of the them. A creature in that area takes 22 (4d10) necrotic damage, turning to dust if reduced to 0 hit points. Beyond the doors lie the temple catacombs (area X31).

## X5d. Amber Reflections

This arched hall rises to a height of twenty feet. You can see your reflections in the amber glaze. But the images don't mirror your movements. Instead, they wave their arms and scream silent warnings to you.

The characters' bizarre reflections are illusions meant to discourage them from exploring the temple. The illusions can be dispelled (DC 15).
The east hall leads to area X32, the west hall to area X36.