# WotC source:
# Y3. Druids' Circle

%% --- Page 275 --- %%
Atop the hill is a wide ring of black boulders and smaller rocks that collectively form a makeshift wall enclosing a field of dead grass. Lightning strikes the edge of the ring from time to time, illuminating a ghastly, fifty-foot-tall statue made of tightly woven twigs and packed with black earth. The statue resembles a towering, cloaked man with fangs.

The ring of boulders that surrounds the field is 250 feet in diameter and ranges from 5 to 10 feet high. Any creature that climbs over the black boulders has a 10 percent chance of being struck by lightning, taking 44 (8d10) lightning damage. Characters can avoid the damage by sticking to the two trails that pass through the ring.

## Wooden Statue 

The giant statue bears an eerie resemblance to Strahd von Zarovich. Close inspection reveals roots sprouting from the ground around its base. These roots are part of the Gulthias tree in area Y4. They wrap around the statue, providing added support and durability. The roots not only prevent the statue from being toppled but also allow the effigy to serve as a component in a ritual to create a tree blight (see "Druids' Ritual" in the "Special Events" section below). Planted in the "heart" of this wooden effigy is a magic gem stolen from the Wizard of Wines vineyard (chapter 12).

The statue has AC 10, 50 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the statue takes fire damage after being splashed with oil, it catches fire, taking 2d6 fire damage each round. If the statue is reduced to 0 hit points, it collapses, and the magic gem tumbles onto the field, glowing with a bright green light.

## Hidden Graves

Hidden throughout the field inside the boulders are six druids (CE male and female humans) and six berserkers (CE male and female humans), all descendants of the ancient mountain tribe whose members are buried on this hill and all covered head to toe in bluish-gray mud. They have long, tangled hair and wild-looking eyes. To honor their dark "god," they sleep in earthen graves hidden under covers made of sod and dead grass. Characters entering the circle who have a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 16 or higher notice the dozen covered graves scattered throughout the field. The druids and the berserkers rise from their graves and attack if anyone approaches or damages the statue, or if they are discovered and attacked.

The druids are waiting to begin a ritual to summon forth an enormous tree blight. Only one druid is needed to complete the ritual, but the druids won't begin without Strahd's blessing. Thus, they are waiting for him to appear. The ritual can't be completed if the statue is destroyed or the magic gem is removed.

If the characters discern or divine the gem's location with the aid of magic, they can try to dig the gem out of the statue's chest. Climbing up the statue is a simple matter, requiring no ability check, and a character within reach of the chest cavity can use an action to dig into it. Have that character's player roll a d20: on a result of 13 or higher, the character unearths the gem and can take it as part of his or her action.

### Development

If the druids and the berserkers are killed, their numbers are replenished as others return from forays into the Svalich Woods. At the end of each day, at dusk, 1d4 - 1 druids and 1d4 - 1 berserkers arrive until there are six of each.