# WotC source:
# Y4. Gulthias Tree

At the south end of the hilltop is a sickly copse, a grove of dead trees and shrubs with a huge, misshapen tree at its core. Blood oozes like sap from its twisted trunk. Skulking around the tree are six gangly humanoid creatures covered with needles. Embedded in the tree is a shiny battleaxe, beneath which lies a humanoid skeleton.

The tree is a Gulthias tree (see the blights entry in the Monster Manual), the roots of which extend deep beneath the hill. Lurking among the dead trees and shrubs are three vine blights, six needle blights, and twelve twig blights. The needle blights are plainly visible, but the False Appearance feature of the vine blights and the twig blights allows them to hide in plain sight. The blights attack anyone who harms the Gulthias tree, which has no actions or effective attacks of its own.

The Gulthias tree has AC 15, 250 hit points, and immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, and psychic damage. If it is reduced to 0 hit points, it seems to be destroyed but isn't truly dead; it regains 1 hit point every month until it is fully healed. With a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check, a character can

%% --- Page 276 --- %%
determine that the entire stump must be uprooted for the tree to truly die. The Gulthias tree withers and dies in 3d10 days if a hallow spell is cast in its area.

The Gulthias tree creates blights from ordinary plants and is the only tree of its kind in Barovia. If the Gulthias tree is killed, no new blights can be created within Strahd's domain. Award the party 1,500 XP for destroying the Gulthias tree.

The skeleton lying at the base of the Gulthias tree is all that remains of a human adventurer who was killed by blights while trying to cut down the tree.

## Treasure 

The dead adventurer's tattered leather armor isn't salvageable, but the axe embedded in the tree is a magic battleaxe. Its handle is carved with leaves and vines, and the weapon weighs half as much as a normal battleaxe. When the axe hits a plant, whether an ordinary plant or a plant creature, the target takes an extra 1d8 slashing damage. When a creature of non-good alignment wields the axe, it sprouts thorns whenever its wielder makes an attack with it. These thorns prick the wielder for 1 piercing damage after the attack is made, and this damage is considered magical.

## Fortunes of Ravenloft

If your card reading reveals that a treasure is here, it's buried amid the roots of the Gulthias tree, beneath the skeleton of the dead adventurer. Characters who dig in the ground under the skeleton automatically find it.