# WotC source:
# Z5. Deep Caves 

A maze of torchlit tunnels and caves expands in front of you. Bones lie strewn upon the floor.

The ceiling here is 10 feet high. The bones on the floor are a warning system. They crunch loudly underfoot, and creatures have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to move silently through this area.

## Z5a. South Cave

Bianca, a white-haired werewolf in wolf form who is Kiril Stoyanovich's mate, sleeps here. She reacts quickly to sounds of alarm, attacking any intruders she sees.

## Z5b. North Cave

Wensencia, a werewolf in wolf form, sleeps here with Kellen, a ten-year-old werewolf in wolf form. Kellen is a noncombatant with AC 10, 2 hit points, and a werewolf's damage immunities. He hugs a wooden doll that eerily resembles one of the characters, but is painted and dressed to look like a zombie. A tiny slogan etched into the zombie doll reads, "Is No Fun, Is No Blinsky!"

When an alarm sounds, Wencensia takes Kellen to area Z7, locks him in one of the empty cages, and tells him to take human form, which he does. She then joins her fellow werewolves in the den's defense.

Kellen was kidnapped from his home in Liam's Hold, a hamlet near the Misty Forest in the Forgotten Realms setting. He was afflicted with werewolf lycanthropy after winning one of Kiril's despicable contests. Wencensia has been tasked with training this newest member of Kiril's pack. Casting a greater restoration spell or a remove curse spell on Kellen ends his lycanthropy.