# WotC source:
# 23. Family Crypts

Several crypts have been hewn from the earth. Each crypt is sealed with a stone slab unless noted otherwise. Removing a slab from its fitting requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check; using a crowbar or the like grants advantage on the check.

## 23A. Empty Crypt

The blank stone slab meant to seal this crypt leans against a nearby wall. The crypt is empty.

## 23B. Walter's Crypt

The stone slab meant to seal this crypt leans against a nearby wall. Etched into it is the name Walter Durst. The crypt is empty.

## 23C. Gustav's Crypt

The stone slab is etched with the name Gustav Durst. The chamber beyond contains an empty coffin atop a stone bier.

## 23D. Elisabeth's Crypt

The stone slab is etched with the name Elisabeth Durst. The crypt contains a stone bier with an empty coffin atop it. A swarm of insects (centipedes) boils out of the back wall and attacks if the coffin is disturbed.

## 23E. Rose's Crypt

The stone slab is etched with the name Rosavalda Durst. The chamber beyond contains an empty coffin on a stone bier.
If Rose's skeletal remains (see area 20) are placed in the coffin, the child's ghost finds peace and disappears forever. A character possessed by Rose's ghost when this occurs is no longer possessed (see also the "Development" section in area 20).

## 23F. Thorn's Crypt

The stone slab is etched with the name Thornboldt Durst. The chamber beyond contains an empty coffin on a stone bier.
If Thorn's skeletal remains (see area 20) are placed in the coffin, the child's ghost finds peace and disappears forever. A character possessed by Thorn's ghost when this occurs is no longer possessed (see also the "Development" section in area 20).

%% --- Page 304 --- %%